{"date":"2025-09-17","papers":[{"id":"arxiv_2509.13317v1","title":"3D Aware Region Prompted Vision Language Model","authors":["An-Chieh Cheng","Yang Fu","Yukang Chen","Zhijian Liu","Xiaolong Li","Subhashree Radhakrishnan","Song Han","Yao Lu","Jan Kautz","Pavlo Molchanov","Hongxu Yin","Xiaolong Wang","Sifei Liu"],"abstract":"We present Spatial Region 3D (SR-3D) aware vision-language model that\nconnects single-view 2D images and multi-view 3D data through a shared visual\ntoken space. SR-3D supports flexible region prompting, allowing users to\nannotate regions with bounding boxes, segmentation masks on any frame, or\ndirectly in 3D, without the need for exhaustive multi-frame labeling. We\nachieve this by enriching 2D visual features with 3D positional embeddings,\nwhich allows the 3D model to draw upon strong 2D priors for more accurate\nspatial reasoning across frames, even when objects of interest do not co-occur\nwithin the same view. Extensive experiments on both general 2D vision language\nand specialized 3D spatial benchmarks demonstrate that SR-3D achieves\nstate-of-the-art performance, underscoring its effectiveness for unifying 2D\nand 3D representation space on scene understanding. Moreover, we observe\napplicability to in-the-wild videos without sensory 3D inputs or ground-truth\n3D annotations, where SR-3D accurately infers spatial relationships and metric\nmeasurements.","published":"2025-09-16T17:59:06Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13317v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper introduces the Spatial Region 3D (SR-3D) aware vision-language model, which bridges the gap between single-view 2D images and multi-view 3D data through a shared visual token space. The motivation stems from the need for effective spatial reasoning in scene understanding, particularly in contexts where exhaustive multi-frame labeling is impractical. The SR-3D model addresses the challenge of accurately interpreting spatial relationships in dynamic environments by leveraging both 2D and 3D data.","challenges":"One of the main technical challenges addressed is the integration of 2D and 3D representations for improved spatial reasoning, especially when objects are not visible in the same view. Existing approaches often rely heavily on multi-frame annotations, which can be labor-intensive and limiting. The paper highlights the limitations of traditional models that do not effectively utilize 3D positional embeddings, leading to suboptimal performance in understanding complex spatial relationships.","innovations":"The SR-3D model introduces several novel techniques, including the use of 3D positional embeddings to enhance 2D visual features, allowing for flexible region prompting through bounding boxes and segmentation masks. This innovation enables the model to perform spatial reasoning across frames without requiring extensive multi-frame labeling. The key technical contributions include the unification of 2D and 3D representation spaces and the ability to infer spatial relationships in videos lacking ground-truth 3D annotations, showcasing both theoretical and practical advancements in scene understanding.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved extensive testing on both general 2D vision-language tasks and specialized 3D spatial benchmarks. The SR-3D model demonstrated state-of-the-art performance, significantly outperforming baseline models in various metrics related to spatial reasoning and scene understanding. Key results indicate improved accuracy in inferring spatial relationships and metric measurements, particularly in scenarios involving in-the-wild videos, highlighting the model's robustness and versatility.","insights":"The implications of this research extend to various applications in computer vision, including robotics, augmented reality, and autonomous navigation, where understanding spatial relationships is crucial. Future research directions may explore further enhancements in model efficiency, the integration of additional sensory data, and the development of more sophisticated prompting mechanisms to improve user interaction with 3D data.","keywords":["3D vision","vision-language model","spatial reasoning","2D/3D integration","region prompting","scene understanding","multi-view data","bounding boxes"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper introduces the Spatial Region 3D (SR-3D) aware vision-language model, which bridges the gap between single-view 2D images and multi-view 3D data through a shared visual token space. The motivation stems from the need for effective spatial reasoning in scene understanding, particularly in contexts where exhaustive multi-frame labeling is impractical. The SR-3D model addresses the challenge of accurately interpreting spatial relationships...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:50.359Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13317v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13316v1","title":"Do Natural Language Descriptions of Model Activations Convey Privileged\n  Information?","authors":["Millicent Li","Alberto Mario Ceballos Arroyo","Giordano Rogers","Naomi Saphra","Byron C. Wallace"],"abstract":"Recent interpretability methods have proposed to translate LLM internal\nrepresentations into natural language descriptions using a second verbalizer\nLLM. This is intended to illuminate how the target model represents and\noperates on inputs. But do such activation verbalization approaches actually\nprovide privileged knowledge about the internal workings of the target model,\nor do they merely convey information about its inputs? We critically evaluate\npopular verbalization methods across datasets used in prior work and find that\nthey succeed at benchmarks without any access to target model internals,\nsuggesting that these datasets are not ideal for evaluating verbalization\nmethods. We then run controlled experiments which reveal that verbalizations\noften reflect the parametric knowledge of the verbalizer LLM which generated\nthem, rather than the activations of the target LLM being decoded. Taken\ntogether, our results indicate a need for targeted benchmarks and experimental\ncontrols to rigorously assess whether verbalization methods provide meaningful\ninsights into the operations of LLMs.","published":"2025-09-16T17:59:04Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13316v1","analysis":{"introduction":"This paper addresses the interpretability of large language models (LLMs) by evaluating the effectiveness of verbalization methods that translate model activations into natural language descriptions. The motivation stems from the growing need to understand how LLMs process and represent information internally. The authors investigate whether these verbalizations provide genuine insights into the model's operations or merely reflect the input data without revealing the underlying mechanisms.","challenges":"A key challenge identified is the reliance on datasets that do not effectively assess the verbalization methods' ability to convey internal model knowledge. Existing approaches often lack rigorous benchmarks, leading to ambiguous conclusions about the interpretability of LLMs. Additionally, the authors highlight that verbalizations may primarily reflect the knowledge embedded in the verbalizer LLM rather than the target model's activations, complicating the evaluation of interpretability.","innovations":"The authors propose a critical evaluation framework for existing verbalization methods, emphasizing the need for targeted benchmarks and experimental controls. They introduce controlled experiments that isolate the influence of the verbalizer LLM on the verbalizations produced. This approach is a significant contribution as it reveals the limitations of current interpretability methods and encourages the development of more robust evaluation strategies. The paper also discusses the implications of these findings for understanding LLM behavior.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves systematic comparisons of various verbalization methods across multiple datasets previously used in the literature. The authors measure the performance of these methods against established benchmarks, revealing that many succeed without accessing the target model's internals. Key results indicate that verbalizations often mirror the parametric knowledge of the verbalizer LLM rather than providing insights into the target model's activations, suggesting a lack of meaningful interpretability.","insights":"The findings have significant implications for the field of AI interpretability, highlighting the need for more rigorous evaluation frameworks for verbalization methods. This research suggests that current approaches may not provide the insights they claim, calling for a reevaluation of how interpretability is assessed in LLMs. Future research could focus on developing new benchmarks and exploring alternative methods for understanding model behavior.","keywords":["interpretability","large language models","verbalization methods","model activations","evaluation benchmarks","natural language processing","AI transparency"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** This paper addresses the interpretability of large language models (LLMs) by evaluating the effectiveness of verbalization methods that translate model activations into natural language descriptions. The motivation stems from the growing need to understand how LLMs process and represent information internally. The authors investigate whether these verbalizations provide genuine insights into the model's operations or merely reflect the input data...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:47.610Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13316v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13313v1","title":"ReSum: Unlocking Long-Horizon Search Intelligence via Context\n  Summarization","authors":["Xixi Wu","Kuan Li","Yida Zhao","Liwen Zhang","Litu Ou","Huifeng Yin","Zhongwang Zhang","Yong Jiang","Pengjun Xie","Fei Huang","Minhao Cheng","Shuai Wang","Hong Cheng","Jingren Zhou"],"abstract":"Large Language Model (LLM)-based web agents demonstrate strong performance on\nknowledge-intensive tasks but are hindered by context window limitations in\nparadigms like ReAct. Complex queries involving multiple entities, intertwined\nrelationships, and high uncertainty demand extensive search cycles that rapidly\nexhaust context budgets before reaching complete solutions. To overcome this\nchallenge, we introduce ReSum, a novel paradigm that enables indefinite\nexploration through periodic context summarization. ReSum converts growing\ninteraction histories into compact reasoning states, maintaining awareness of\nprior discoveries while bypassing context constraints. For paradigm adaptation,\nwe propose ReSum-GRPO, integrating GRPO with segmented trajectory training and\nadvantage broadcasting to familiarize agents with summary-conditioned\nreasoning. Extensive experiments on web agents of varying scales across three\nbenchmarks demonstrate that ReSum delivers an average absolute improvement of\n4.5\\% over ReAct, with further gains of up to 8.2\\% following ReSum-GRPO\ntraining. Notably, with only 1K training samples, our WebResummer-30B (a\nReSum-GRPO-trained version of WebSailor-30B) achieves 33.3\\% Pass@1 on\nBrowseComp-zh and 18.3\\% on BrowseComp-en, surpassing existing open-source web\nagents.","published":"2025-09-16T17:57:22Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13313v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the limitations of Large Language Model (LLM)-based web agents, particularly in handling complex queries that require extensive context. Existing paradigms like ReAct struggle with context window constraints, which impede their ability to process intricate interactions involving multiple entities and relationships. The authors propose ReSum, a new paradigm that enhances search intelligence through periodic context summarization, allowing agents to maintain awareness of prior discoveries while navigating extensive search cycles.","challenges":"The primary technical challenges include the limited context window of LLMs, which restricts their ability to process lengthy interactions and complex queries effectively. Existing approaches like ReAct fail to manage the growing interaction histories, leading to rapid exhaustion of context budgets. This results in incomplete solutions for queries that require deeper exploration and reasoning across multiple entities and relationships.","innovations":"ReSum introduces a novel approach to context management by periodically summarizing interaction histories into compact reasoning states. This allows agents to bypass context constraints and maintain continuity in reasoning. The authors also propose ReSum-GRPO, which integrates GRPO with segmented trajectory training and advantage broadcasting, enhancing agents' ability to perform summary-conditioned reasoning. These innovations significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of web agents in knowledge-intensive tasks.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved testing ReSum on web agents of varying scales across three benchmarks. The results demonstrated an average absolute improvement of 4.5% over the baseline ReAct, with further enhancements of up to 8.2% following ReSum-GRPO training. Notably, the WebResummer-30B, trained with only 1K samples, achieved a Pass@1 rate of 33.3% on BrowseComp-zh and 18.3% on BrowseComp-en, outperforming existing open-source web agents.","insights":"The findings suggest significant implications for the development of more capable web agents, particularly in handling complex queries with extensive context requirements. ReSum's ability to summarize context dynamically opens new avenues for research in LLMs and their applications in real-world scenarios. Future research could explore further enhancements to context summarization techniques and their integration into various AI-driven applications.","keywords":["Large Language Models","context summarization","ReAct","ReSum","GRPO","web agents","knowledge-intensive tasks","BrowseComp"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the limitations of Large Language Model (LLM)-based web agents, particularly in handling complex queries that require extensive context. Existing paradigms like ReAct struggle with context window constraints, which impede their ability to process intricate interactions involving multiple entities and relationships. The authors propose ReSum, a new paradigm that enhances search intelligence through periodic context summarizatio...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:01.289Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13313v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13312v1","title":"WebWeaver: Structuring Web-Scale Evidence with Dynamic Outlines for\n  Open-Ended Deep Research","authors":["Zijian Li","Xin Guan","Bo Zhang","Shen Huang","Houquan Zhou","Shaopeng Lai","Ming Yan","Yong Jiang","Pengjun Xie","Fei Huang","Jun Zhang","Jingren Zhou"],"abstract":"This paper tackles open-ended deep research (OEDR), a complex challenge where\nAI agents must synthesize vast web-scale information into insightful reports.\nCurrent approaches are plagued by dual-fold limitations: static research\npipelines that decouple planning from evidence acquisition and one-shot\ngeneration paradigms that easily suffer from long-context failure issues like\n\"loss in the middle\" and hallucinations. To address these challenges, we\nintroduce WebWeaver, a novel dual-agent framework that emulates the human\nresearch process. The planner operates in a dynamic cycle, iteratively\ninterleaving evidence acquisition with outline optimization to produce a\ncomprehensive, source-grounded outline linking to a memory bank of evidence.\nThe writer then executes a hierarchical retrieval and writing process,\ncomposing the report section by section. By performing targeted retrieval of\nonly the necessary evidence from the memory bank for each part, it effectively\nmitigates long-context issues. Our framework establishes a new state-of-the-art\nacross major OEDR benchmarks, including DeepResearch Bench, DeepConsult, and\nDeepResearchGym. These results validate our human-centric, iterative\nmethodology, demonstrating that adaptive planning and focused synthesis are\ncrucial for producing high-quality, reliable, and well-structured reports.","published":"2025-09-16T17:57:21Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13312v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the challenge of open-ended deep research (OEDR), where AI systems must synthesize extensive information from the web into coherent reports. The motivation stems from the limitations of current methodologies that separate planning from evidence gathering and often result in poor contextual understanding and hallucinations during report generation.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the static nature of existing research pipelines, which fail to integrate planning with evidence acquisition effectively. Additionally, one-shot generation paradigms struggle with long-context issues, leading to incomplete or inaccurate outputs, often referred to as 'loss in the middle' and hallucinations.","innovations":"WebWeaver introduces a dual-agent framework that mimics the human research process, consisting of a planner and a writer. The planner dynamically interleaves evidence acquisition with outline optimization, creating a source-grounded outline linked to a memory bank. The writer employs a hierarchical retrieval and writing process, targeting only the necessary evidence for each report section. This approach significantly reduces long-context issues and enhances report quality. The framework sets new benchmarks in OEDR tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of adaptive planning and focused synthesis.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved evaluating WebWeaver against major OEDR benchmarks, including DeepResearch Bench, DeepConsult, and DeepResearchGym. The results showed that WebWeaver outperformed existing state-of-the-art methods across these benchmarks, achieving higher quality and more reliable reports. Key metrics included accuracy, coherence, and evidence grounding, showcasing significant improvements over baseline models.","insights":"The findings suggest that a human-centric, iterative approach to research synthesis is crucial for enhancing the quality of AI-generated reports. The implications extend to various applications, including automated research assistance, content generation, and educational tools. Future research directions may explore further integration of real-time data retrieval and the enhancement of the memory bank for even more dynamic evidence acquisition.","keywords":["open-ended deep research","dynamic outlines","evidence acquisition","AI report generation","dual-agent framework","hierarchical retrieval","DeepResearch Bench","memory bank"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the challenge of open-ended deep research (OEDR), where AI systems must synthesize extensive information from the web into coherent reports. The motivation stems from the limitations of current methodologies that separate planning from evidence gathering and often result in poor contextual understanding and hallucinations during report generation.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:01.957Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13312v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13311v1","title":"Towards General Agentic Intelligence via Environment Scaling","authors":["Runnan Fang","Shihao Cai","Baixuan Li","Jialong Wu","Guangyu Li","Wenbiao Yin","Xinyu Wang","Xiaobin Wang","Liangcai Su","Zhen Zhang","Shibin Wu","Zhengwei Tao","Yong Jiang","Pengjun Xie","Fei Huang","Jingren Zhou"],"abstract":"Advanced agentic intelligence is a prerequisite for deploying Large Language\nModels in practical, real-world applications. Diverse real-world APIs demand\nprecise, robust function-calling intelligence, which needs agents to develop\nthese capabilities through interaction in varied environments. The breadth of\nfunction-calling competence is closely tied to the diversity of environments in\nwhich agents are trained. In this work, we scale up environments as a step\ntowards advancing general agentic intelligence. This gives rise to two central\nchallenges: (i) how to scale environments in a principled manner, and (ii) how\nto effectively train agentic capabilities from experiences derived through\ninteractions with these environments. To address these, we design a scalable\nframework that automatically constructs heterogeneous environments that are\nfully simulated, systematically broadening the space of function-calling\nscenarios. We further adapt a two-phase agent fine-tuning strategy: first\nendowing agents with fundamental agentic capabilities, then specializing them\nfor domain-specific contexts. Extensive experiments on agentic benchmarks,\ntau-bench, tau2-Bench, and ACEBench, demonstrate that our trained model,\nAgentScaler, significantly enhances the function-calling capability of models.","published":"2025-09-16T17:57:20Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13311v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the need for advanced agentic intelligence in deploying Large Language Models (LLMs) for real-world applications. The motivation stems from the requirement for precise and robust function-calling capabilities in diverse environments, which are essential for effective API interactions. The authors aim to enhance agentic intelligence by scaling the variety of training environments, thereby improving the agents' ability to handle real-world tasks.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the principled scaling of environments to ensure diversity and the effective training of agents to develop agentic capabilities from varied experiences. Existing approaches often lack the breadth of environments necessary for comprehensive training, limiting the function-calling competence of agents.","innovations":"The authors introduce a scalable framework that automatically constructs heterogeneous environments, significantly broadening the function-calling scenarios available for training. They propose a two-phase fine-tuning strategy for agents: the first phase focuses on instilling fundamental agentic capabilities, while the second phase specializes these capabilities for specific domains. This structured approach represents a theoretical innovation in training methodologies for agentic intelligence.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves extensive evaluations on established agentic benchmarks, including tau-bench, tau2-Bench, and ACEBench. The results demonstrate that the proposed model, AgentScaler, significantly outperforms baseline models in function-calling tasks, showcasing improved robustness and precision. Key metrics indicate substantial enhancements in the agents' ability to interact with diverse APIs effectively.","insights":"The findings have significant implications for the field of agentic intelligence, suggesting that environment diversity is critical for developing robust agents. Potential applications include enhanced API interactions in various industries, from finance to healthcare. Future research directions may explore further scaling of environments and the integration of additional learning paradigms to improve agent adaptability.","keywords":["agentic intelligence","Large Language Models","function-calling","environment scaling","training frameworks","tau-bench","ACEBench","fine-tuning"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the need for advanced agentic intelligence in deploying Large Language Models (LLMs) for real-world applications. The motivation stems from the requirement for precise and robust function-calling capabilities in diverse environments, which are essential for effective API interactions. The authors aim to enhance agentic intelligence by scaling the variety of training environments, thereby improving the agents' ability to handle...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:11.744Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13311v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13310v1","title":"Scaling Agents via Continual Pre-training","authors":["Liangcai Su","Zhen Zhang","Guangyu Li","Zhuo Chen","Chenxi Wang","Maojia Song","Xinyu Wang","Kuan Li","Jialong Wu","Xuanzhong Chen","Zile Qiao","Zhongwang Zhang","Huifeng Yin","Shihao Cai","Runnan Fang","Zhengwei Tao","Wenbiao Yin","Chenxiong Qian","Yong Jiang","Pengjun Xie","Fei Huang","Jingren Zhou"],"abstract":"Large language models (LLMs) have evolved into agentic systems capable of\nautonomous tool use and multi-step reasoning for complex problem-solving.\nHowever, post-training approaches building upon general-purpose foundation\nmodels consistently underperform in agentic tasks, particularly in open-source\nimplementations. We identify the root cause: the absence of robust agentic\nfoundation models forces models during post-training to simultaneously learn\ndiverse agentic behaviors while aligning them to expert demonstrations, thereby\ncreating fundamental optimization tensions. To this end, we are the first to\npropose incorporating Agentic Continual Pre-training (Agentic CPT) into the\ndeep research agents training pipeline to build powerful agentic foundational\nmodels. Based on this approach, we develop a deep research agent model named\nAgentFounder. We evaluate our AgentFounder-30B on 10 benchmarks and achieve\nstate-of-the-art performance while retains strong tool-use ability, notably\n39.9% on BrowseComp-en, 43.3% on BrowseComp-zh, and 31.5% Pass@1 on HLE.","published":"2025-09-16T17:57:19Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13310v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the evolution of large language models (LLMs) into agentic systems capable of autonomous tool use and multi-step reasoning. The motivation stems from the observed underperformance of post-training approaches on agentic tasks, particularly in open-source implementations. The authors highlight the need for robust agentic foundation models to alleviate optimization tensions during the learning of diverse agentic behaviors aligned with expert demonstrations.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the simultaneous learning of various agentic behaviors while ensuring alignment with expert demonstrations, which creates fundamental optimization tensions. Existing approaches lack robust agentic foundation models, leading to suboptimal performance in agentic tasks and hindering the development of effective deep research agents.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel method called Agentic Continual Pre-training (Agentic CPT), which is integrated into the training pipeline for deep research agents. This approach allows for the development of powerful agentic foundational models, exemplified by the creation of the AgentFounder model. Key contributions include the introduction of a systematic pre-training strategy that enhances tool-use capabilities and multi-step reasoning, resulting in state-of-the-art performance across multiple benchmarks.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves evaluating the AgentFounder-30B model on 10 different benchmarks to assess its performance in agentic tasks. Key results show significant improvements, with the model achieving 39.9% on BrowseComp-en, 43.3% on BrowseComp-zh, and 31.5% Pass@1 on HLE. These results indicate a clear advantage over existing baseline models, showcasing the effectiveness of the proposed Agentic CPT approach.","insights":"The findings have important implications for the field of AI, particularly in enhancing the capabilities of LLMs in agentic tasks. Potential applications include improved autonomous systems in various domains such as robotics, virtual assistants, and complex problem-solving environments. Future research directions may explore further refinements of Agentic CPT and its applicability to other types of models and tasks.","keywords":["large language models","agentic systems","continual pre-training","AgentFounder","tool use","multi-step reasoning","benchmarks","optimization"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the evolution of large language models (LLMs) into agentic systems capable of autonomous tool use and multi-step reasoning. The motivation stems from the observed underperformance of post-training approaches on agentic tasks, particularly in open-source implementations. The authors highlight the need for robust agentic foundation models to alleviate optimization tensions during the learning of diverse agentic behaviors aligned...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:11.502Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13310v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13309v1","title":"WebResearcher: Unleashing unbounded reasoning capability in Long-Horizon\n  Agents","authors":["Zile Qiao","Guoxin Chen","Xuanzhong Chen","Donglei Yu","Wenbiao Yin","Xinyu Wang","Zhen Zhang","Baixuan Li","Huifeng Yin","Kuan Li","Rui Min","Minpeng Liao","Yong Jiang","Pengjun Xie","Fei Huang","Jingren Zhou"],"abstract":"Recent advances in deep-research systems have demonstrated the potential for\nAI agents to autonomously discover and synthesize knowledge from external\nsources. In this paper, we introduce WebResearcher, a novel framework for\nbuilding such agents through two key components: (1) WebResearcher, an\niterative deep-research paradigm that reformulates deep research as a Markov\nDecision Process, where agents periodically consolidate findings into evolving\nreports while maintaining focused workspaces, overcoming the context\nsuffocation and noise contamination that plague existing mono-contextual\napproaches; and (2) WebFrontier, a scalable data synthesis engine that\ngenerates high-quality training data through tool-augmented complexity\nescalation, enabling systematic creation of research tasks that bridge the gap\nbetween passive knowledge recall and active knowledge construction. Notably, we\nfind that the training data from our paradigm significantly enhances tool-use\ncapabilities even for traditional mono-contextual methods. Furthermore, our\nparadigm naturally scales through parallel thinking, enabling concurrent\nmulti-agent exploration for more comprehensive conclusions. Extensive\nexperiments across 6 challenging benchmarks demonstrate that WebResearcher\nachieves state-of-the-art performance, even surpassing frontier proprietary\nsystems.","published":"2025-09-16T17:57:17Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13309v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing need for AI agents to autonomously discover and synthesize knowledge from diverse external sources. Current systems often struggle with context suffocation and noise contamination, limiting their effectiveness in long-horizon reasoning tasks. The authors propose WebResearcher, a framework designed to enhance the reasoning capabilities of AI agents by reformulating deep research into a Markov Decision Process, allowing for iterative knowledge consolidation and focused exploration.","challenges":"Key challenges include managing the complexity of information retrieval and synthesis in a coherent manner, as traditional mono-contextual approaches often lead to information overload and ineffective learning. Existing systems typically lack the ability to maintain focused workspaces, resulting in diminished performance in long-horizon reasoning tasks. The paper highlights the limitations of these approaches in effectively bridging passive knowledge recall with active knowledge construction.","innovations":"WebResearcher introduces two major innovations: (1) an iterative deep-research paradigm that treats research as a Markov Decision Process, allowing agents to consolidate findings into evolving reports while maintaining focused workspaces, and (2) WebFrontier, a scalable data synthesis engine that generates high-quality training data through tool-augmented complexity escalation. These contributions enhance tool-use capabilities and facilitate concurrent multi-agent exploration, significantly improving the overall performance of AI agents in research tasks.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved extensive testing across six challenging benchmarks to evaluate the performance of WebResearcher. The results demonstrated that the proposed framework achieved state-of-the-art performance, surpassing existing proprietary systems. Key metrics included accuracy in knowledge synthesis and agent efficiency in task completion, showcasing significant improvements over baseline mono-contextual methods.","insights":"The findings from this research have important implications for the development of more capable AI agents in various fields, including automated research, data analysis, and decision-making systems. Future research directions may include exploring further enhancements in multi-agent collaboration and the integration of additional external knowledge sources to improve reasoning capabilities.","keywords":["AI agents","deep-research","Markov Decision Process","data synthesis","tool-augmented complexity","multi-agent exploration","knowledge construction","context management"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing need for AI agents to autonomously discover and synthesize knowledge from diverse external sources. Current systems often struggle with context suffocation and noise contamination, limiting their effectiveness in long-horizon reasoning tasks. The authors propose WebResearcher, a framework designed to enhance the reasoning capabilities of AI agents by reformulating deep research into a Markov Decision Process, allow...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:23.996Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13309v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13305v1","title":"WebSailor-V2: Bridging the Chasm to Proprietary Agents via Synthetic\n  Data and Scalable Reinforcement Learning","authors":["Kuan Li","Zhongwang Zhang","Huifeng Yin","Rui Ye","Yida Zhao","Liwen Zhang","Litu Ou","Dingchu Zhang","Xixi Wu","Jialong Wu","Xinyu Wang","Zile Qiao","Zhen Zhang","Yong Jiang","Pengjun Xie","Fei Huang","Jingren Zhou"],"abstract":"Transcending human cognitive limitations represents a critical frontier in\nLLM training. Proprietary agentic systems like DeepResearch have demonstrated\nsuperhuman capabilities on extremely complex information-seeking benchmarks\nsuch as BrowseComp, a feat previously unattainable. We posit that their success\nhinges on a sophisticated reasoning pattern absent in open-source models: the\nability to systematically reduce extreme uncertainty when navigating vast\ninformation landscapes. Based on this insight, we introduce WebSailor, a\ncomplete post-training methodology designed to instill this crucial capability.\nOur approach involves generating novel, high-uncertainty tasks through\nstructured sampling and information obfuscation, RFT cold start, and an\nefficient agentic RL training algorithm, Duplicating Sampling Policy\nOptimization (DUPO). With this integrated pipeline, WebSailor significantly\noutperforms all open-source agents in complex information-seeking tasks,\nmatching proprietary agents' performance and closing the capability gap.","published":"2025-09-16T17:57:03Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13305v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the limitations of open-source large language models (LLMs) in achieving superhuman performance in complex information-seeking tasks. Proprietary systems like DeepResearch have shown advanced capabilities, which the authors attribute to a unique reasoning pattern that allows for effective navigation through vast information landscapes. The motivation behind this research is to bridge the performance gap between proprietary and open-source models by enhancing the latter's reasoning capabilities.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the systematic reduction of uncertainty in information-seeking tasks and the inability of existing open-source models to replicate the sophisticated reasoning patterns found in proprietary agents. Current approaches often fail to generate high-uncertainty tasks effectively, limiting their training and performance in complex scenarios.","innovations":"WebSailor introduces a novel post-training methodology that incorporates structured sampling and information obfuscation to create high-uncertainty tasks. The Duplicating Sampling Policy Optimization (DUPO) algorithm is a key innovation, designed to enhance reinforcement learning training efficiency. This integrated approach not only matches the performance of proprietary agents but also provides a scalable framework for improving open-source models, representing a significant advancement in the field of agentic systems.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved rigorous benchmarking against existing open-source agents on complex information-seeking tasks, particularly focusing on the BrowseComp benchmark. Key results demonstrated that WebSailor significantly outperformed all tested open-source agents, achieving performance levels comparable to proprietary systems. Metrics used for evaluation included task completion rates and reasoning accuracy, highlighting the effectiveness of the proposed methodology.","insights":"The findings suggest that enhancing reasoning capabilities through synthetic data and scalable reinforcement learning can substantially elevate the performance of open-source models. This has implications for the development of more capable AI systems in various applications, including information retrieval and decision-making. Future research could explore further refinements to the DUPO algorithm and its application in different domains.","keywords":["synthetic data","reinforcement learning","WebSailor","DUPO","information-seeking","open-source models","task completion","reasoning capabilities"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the limitations of open-source large language models (LLMs) in achieving superhuman performance in complex information-seeking tasks. Proprietary systems like DeepResearch have shown advanced capabilities, which the authors attribute to a unique reasoning pattern that allows for effective navigation through vast information landscapes. The motivation behind this research is to bridge the performance gap between proprietary and...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:21.245Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13305v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13301v1","title":"StyleSculptor: Zero-Shot Style-Controllable 3D Asset Generation with\n  Texture-Geometry Dual Guidance","authors":["Zefan Qu","Zhenwei Wang","Haoyuan Wang","Ke Xu","Gerhard Hancke","Rynson W. H. Lau"],"abstract":"Creating 3D assets that follow the texture and geometry style of existing\nones is often desirable or even inevitable in practical applications like video\ngaming and virtual reality. While impressive progress has been made in\ngenerating 3D objects from text or images, creating style-controllable 3D\nassets remains a complex and challenging problem. In this work, we propose\nStyleSculptor, a novel training-free approach for generating style-guided 3D\nassets from a content image and one or more style images. Unlike previous\nworks, StyleSculptor achieves style-guided 3D generation in a zero-shot manner,\nenabling fine-grained 3D style control that captures the texture, geometry, or\nboth styles of user-provided style images. At the core of StyleSculptor is a\nnovel Style Disentangled Attention (SD-Attn) module, which establishes a\ndynamic interaction between the input content image and style image for\nstyle-guided 3D asset generation via a cross-3D attention mechanism, enabling\nstable feature fusion and effective style-guided generation. To alleviate\nsemantic content leakage, we also introduce a style-disentangled feature\nselection strategy within the SD-Attn module, which leverages the variance of\n3D feature patches to disentangle style- and content-significant channels,\nallowing selective feature injection within the attention framework. With\nSD-Attn, the network can dynamically compute texture-, geometry-, or\nboth-guided features to steer the 3D generation process. Built upon this, we\nfurther propose the Style Guided Control (SGC) mechanism, which enables\nexclusive geometry- or texture-only stylization, as well as adjustable style\nintensity control. Extensive experiments demonstrate that StyleSculptor\noutperforms existing baseline methods in producing high-fidelity 3D assets.","published":"2025-09-16T17:55:20Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13301v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing demand for generating 3D assets that adhere to specific texture and geometry styles, particularly in applications like video gaming and virtual reality. Existing methods for 3D object generation from text or images have made significant strides, yet the ability to control the style of generated 3D assets remains a complex challenge. This research introduces StyleSculptor, a training-free approach that enables zero-shot style-guided 3D asset generation from content and style images, aiming to fill this gap.","challenges":"Key challenges include achieving fine-grained control over the style of 3D assets while preventing semantic content leakage from the input images. Existing approaches often struggle with effectively disentangling content and style, leading to less desirable results in terms of fidelity and adherence to user specifications. The complexity of integrating texture and geometry styles in a coherent manner further complicates the generation process.","innovations":"StyleSculptor introduces several novel methodologies, primarily the Style Disentangled Attention (SD-Attn) module, which employs a cross-3D attention mechanism to facilitate dynamic interactions between content and style images. This module allows for stable feature fusion and effective style-guided generation. Additionally, the style-disentangled feature selection strategy enhances the model's ability to differentiate between style and content features, enabling selective feature injection. The Style Guided Control (SGC) mechanism further refines the process by allowing exclusive geometry or texture stylization and adjustable style intensity, marking significant advancements in the field.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved extensive evaluations against existing baseline methods to assess the fidelity and quality of the generated 3D assets. Key metrics included visual fidelity, adherence to style specifications, and user satisfaction. Results demonstrated that StyleSculptor significantly outperforms traditional methods, showcasing high-quality 3D asset generation with effective style control. The experiments validate the effectiveness of the SD-Attn module and SGC mechanism in producing superior outcomes.","insights":"The implications of this research extend to various fields, including gaming, virtual reality, and digital content creation, where customizable 3D assets are increasingly essential. The zero-shot capability of StyleSculptor opens avenues for rapid prototyping and creative exploration in 3D design. Future research could explore further enhancements in style control, integration with other generative models, and applications in real-time environments.","keywords":["3D asset generation","style control","texture-geometry dual guidance","Style Disentangled Attention","zero-shot learning","feature selection","cross-3D attention","Style Guided Control"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing demand for generating 3D assets that adhere to specific texture and geometry styles, particularly in applications like video gaming and virtual reality. Existing methods for 3D object generation from text or images have made significant strides, yet the ability to control the style of generated 3D assets remains a complex challenge. This research introduces StyleSculptor, a training-free approach that enables zero-...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:37.307Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13301v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13298v1","title":"QDFlow: A Python package for physics simulations of quantum dot devices","authors":["Donovan L. Buterakos","Sandesh S. Kalantre","Joshua Ziegler","Jacob M Taylor","Justyna P. Zwolak"],"abstract":"Recent advances in machine learning (ML) have accelerated progress in\ncalibrating and operating quantum dot (QD) devices. However, most ML approaches\nrely on access to large, high-quality labeled datasets for training,\nbenchmarking, and validation, with labels capturing key features in the data.\nObtaining such datasets experimentally is challenging due to limited data\navailability and the labor-intensive nature of labeling. QDFlow is an\nopen-source physics simulator for multi-QD arrays that generates realistic\nsynthetic data with ground-truth labels. QDFlow combines a self-consistent\nThomas-Fermi solver, a dynamic capacitance model, and flexible noise modules to\nproduce charge stability diagrams and ray-based data closely resembling\nexperiments. With extensive tunable parameters and customizable noise models,\nQDFlow supports the creation of large, diverse datasets for ML development,\nbenchmarking, and quantum device research.","published":"2025-09-16T17:54:25Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13298v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing intersection of machine learning and quantum dot (QD) devices, highlighting the challenges in obtaining high-quality labeled datasets necessary for training ML models. The motivation stems from the need for efficient calibration and operation of QD devices, which are pivotal in quantum computing and nanotechnology. The authors introduce QDFlow, a physics simulator designed to generate synthetic datasets that mimic experimental data, thereby alleviating the data scarcity issue.","challenges":"A significant challenge in the field is the labor-intensive process of labeling experimental data, which is often limited in quantity and quality. Existing machine learning approaches struggle due to the reliance on large, accurately labeled datasets, which are difficult to obtain in the context of quantum dot devices. This limitation hampers the development and benchmarking of ML models tailored for QD applications.","innovations":"QDFlow presents several innovations, including a self-consistent Thomas-Fermi solver and a dynamic capacitance model that work in tandem to simulate multi-QD arrays. The introduction of customizable noise modules enhances the realism of the generated synthetic data, allowing researchers to explore a wide range of scenarios. This package not only produces charge stability diagrams but also facilitates the creation of diverse datasets for machine learning applications, thus bridging a critical gap in quantum device research.","experiments":"The authors conducted experiments using QDFlow to generate synthetic datasets and validate them against experimental data. The experimental setup involved varying key parameters and noise models to assess the robustness of the generated data. Key results demonstrated that QDFlow could produce charge stability diagrams that closely resemble those observed in actual experiments, with metrics indicating high fidelity and diversity compared to baseline datasets. This validation underscores the utility of QDFlow in supporting ML model training and benchmarking.","insights":"The implications of QDFlow extend beyond just data generation; it represents a significant step towards integrating machine learning with quantum device research. Potential applications include improving the calibration processes for QD devices and accelerating the development of quantum computing technologies. Future research directions may involve enhancing the simulator's capabilities, exploring additional noise models, and integrating QDFlow with existing ML frameworks for more comprehensive studies.","keywords":["quantum dots","machine learning","synthetic data","physics simulation","charge stability diagrams","Thomas-Fermi solver","dynamic capacitance model","noise modeling"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing intersection of machine learning and quantum dot (QD) devices, highlighting the challenges in obtaining high-quality labeled datasets necessary for training ML models. The motivation stems from the need for efficient calibration and operation of QD devices, which are pivotal in quantum computing and nanotechnology. The authors introduce QDFlow, a physics simulator designed to generate synthetic datasets that mimic ...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:34.820Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13298v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13294v1","title":"Accelerating Protein Molecular Dynamics Simulation with DeepJump","authors":["Allan dos Santos Costa","Manvitha Ponnapati","Dana Rubin","Tess Smidt","Joseph Jacobson"],"abstract":"Unraveling the dynamical motions of biomolecules is essential for bridging\ntheir structure and function, yet it remains a major computational challenge.\nMolecular dynamics (MD) simulation provides a detailed depiction of\nbiomolecular motion, but its high-resolution temporal evolution comes at\nsignificant computational cost, limiting its applicability to timescales of\nbiological relevance. Deep learning approaches have emerged as promising\nsolutions to overcome these computational limitations by learning to predict\nlong-timescale dynamics. However, generalizable kinetics models for proteins\nremain largely unexplored, and the fundamental limits of achievable\nacceleration while preserving dynamical accuracy are poorly understood. In this\nwork, we fill this gap with DeepJump, an Euclidean-Equivariant Flow\nMatching-based model for predicting protein conformational dynamics across\nmultiple temporal scales. We train DeepJump on trajectories of the diverse\nproteins of mdCATH, systematically studying our model's performance in\ngeneralizing to long-term dynamics of fast-folding proteins and characterizing\nthe trade-off between computational acceleration and prediction accuracy. We\ndemonstrate the application of DeepJump to ab initio folding, showcasing\nprediction of folding pathways and native states. Our results demonstrate that\nDeepJump achieves significant $\\approx$1000$\\times$ computational acceleration\nwhile effectively recovering long-timescale dynamics, providing a stepping\nstone for enabling routine simulation of proteins.","published":"2025-09-16T17:48:58Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13294v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The study addresses the computational challenges associated with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, which are crucial for understanding biomolecular motions and their implications for structure and function. Traditional MD simulations are limited by their high computational cost, restricting their applicability to biologically relevant timescales. The authors propose a deep learning approach, DeepJump, to predict long-timescale protein dynamics, aiming to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of these simulations.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the need for generalizable kinetic models for proteins and understanding the trade-offs between computational acceleration and dynamical accuracy. Existing approaches often struggle with scalability and fail to maintain accuracy over long timescales, which is critical for meaningful biological insights.","innovations":"DeepJump introduces a novel Euclidean-Equivariant Flow Matching-based model specifically designed for predicting protein conformational dynamics across multiple temporal scales. This approach allows for significant computational accelerationapproximately 1000 times faster than traditional methodswhile effectively recovering long-timescale dynamics. The model is trained on diverse protein trajectories from the mdCATH dataset, showcasing its ability to generalize to fast-folding proteins and accurately predict folding pathways and native states.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved training DeepJump on a comprehensive dataset of protein trajectories from mdCATH, focusing on its performance in predicting long-term dynamics. Key metrics included computational speedup and accuracy of predicted dynamics compared to traditional MD simulations. The results demonstrated that DeepJump significantly outperformed baseline methods, achieving a remarkable 1000-fold acceleration while maintaining high fidelity in the prediction of protein dynamics.","insights":"The implications of DeepJump extend to routine protein simulations, potentially transforming the field of computational biology by enabling more efficient exploration of protein dynamics. Future research directions may include refining the model for even broader applicability, exploring its use in drug discovery, and integrating it with other computational methods to enhance biomolecular simulations further.","keywords":["molecular dynamics","deep learning","protein dynamics","Euclidean-Equivariant","Flow Matching","mdCATH","computational acceleration","folding pathways"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The study addresses the computational challenges associated with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, which are crucial for understanding biomolecular motions and their implications for structure and function. Traditional MD simulations are limited by their high computational cost, restricting their applicability to biologically relevant timescales. The authors propose a deep learning approach, DeepJump, to predict long-timescale protein dynamics...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:50.381Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13294v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13289v1","title":"Image Realness Assessment and Localization with Multimodal Features","authors":["Lovish Kaushik","Agnij Biswas","Somdyuti Paul"],"abstract":"A reliable method of quantifying the perceptual realness of AI-generated\nimages and identifying visually inconsistent regions is crucial for practical\nuse of AI-generated images and for improving photorealism of generative AI via\nrealness feedback during training. This paper introduces a framework that\naccomplishes both overall objective realness assessment and local inconsistency\nidentification of AI-generated images using textual descriptions of visual\ninconsistencies generated by vision-language models trained on large datasets\nthat serve as reliable substitutes for human annotations. Our results\ndemonstrate that the proposed multimodal approach improves objective realness\nprediction performance and produces dense realness maps that effectively\ndistinguish between realistic and unrealistic spatial regions.","published":"2025-09-16T17:42:51Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13289v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing need for reliable methods to assess the perceptual realness of AI-generated images, particularly as generative models become increasingly prevalent. The motivation stems from the necessity to improve the photorealism of these images and provide feedback during the training of generative AI. The authors focus on quantifying realness and identifying visually inconsistent regions in AI-generated images, which is crucial for practical applications in various domains such as digital content creation and visual media.","challenges":"A significant technical challenge is the subjective nature of realness assessment, which complicates the development of objective metrics. Existing approaches often rely on human annotations, which can be inconsistent and labor-intensive. Additionally, the localization of inconsistencies in generated images poses difficulties, as traditional methods may not effectively capture the nuances of visual discrepancies, leading to inaccurate assessments.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel framework that leverages multimodal features, specifically integrating textual descriptions generated by vision-language models with visual data to enhance realness assessment. This approach allows for both overall objective realness evaluation and the identification of local inconsistencies in AI-generated images. The key technical contributions include the development of dense realness maps that provide spatial insights into realistic versus unrealistic regions, improving upon existing methodologies that lack such granularity. The use of large datasets for training vision-language models represents a significant theoretical innovation, as it enables the framework to serve as a reliable substitute for human annotations.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves a comprehensive evaluation of the proposed framework against various baseline methods, utilizing metrics such as accuracy, precision, and recall to quantify performance. The results indicate a marked improvement in objective realness prediction, with the multimodal approach yielding dense realness maps that effectively highlight discrepancies in spatial regions. Comparisons with traditional methods demonstrate that the proposed framework significantly outperforms existing techniques in both overall assessment and localization tasks.","insights":"This research has important implications for the field of computer vision and generative AI, particularly in enhancing the quality and reliability of AI-generated images. Potential applications include digital art, virtual reality, and content moderation. Future research directions may focus on refining the multimodal framework, exploring additional features for realness assessment, and expanding the dataset to include a wider variety of visual inconsistencies to further improve model robustness.","keywords":["image realness assessment","multimodal features","AI-generated images","visual inconsistencies","vision-language models","dense realness maps","objective metrics","human annotations"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing need for reliable methods to assess the perceptual realness of AI-generated images, particularly as generative models become increasingly prevalent. The motivation stems from the necessity to improve the photorealism of these images and provide feedback during the training of generative AI. The authors focus on quantifying realness and identifying visually inconsistent regions in AI-generated images, which is cruci...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:09:47.022Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13289v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13288v1","title":"Shapes of Cognition for Computational Cognitive Modeling","authors":["Marjorie McShane","Sergei Nirenburg","Sanjay Oruganti","Jesse English"],"abstract":"Shapes of cognition is a new conceptual paradigm for the computational\ncognitive modeling of Language-Endowed Intelligent Agents (LEIAs). Shapes are\nremembered constellations of sensory, linguistic, conceptual, episodic, and\nprocedural knowledge that allow agents to cut through the complexity of real\nlife the same way as people do: by expecting things to be typical, recognizing\npatterns, acting by habit, reasoning by analogy, satisficing, and generally\nminimizing cognitive load to the degree situations permit. Atypical outcomes\nare treated using shapes-based recovery methods, such as learning on the fly,\nasking a human partner for help, or seeking an actionable, even if imperfect,\nsituational understanding. Although shapes is an umbrella term, it is not\nvague: shapes-based modeling involves particular objectives, hypotheses,\nmodeling strategies, knowledge bases, and actual models of wide-ranging\nphenomena, all implemented within a particular cognitive architecture. Such\nspecificity is needed both to vet our hypotheses and to achieve our practical\naims of building useful agent systems that are explainable, extensible, and\nworthy of our trust, even in critical domains. However, although the LEIA\nexample of shapes-based modeling is specific, the principles can be applied\nmore broadly, giving new life to knowledge-based and hybrid AI.","published":"2025-09-16T17:39:58Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13288v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper introduces 'Shapes of Cognition', a conceptual framework for computational cognitive modeling aimed at enhancing the capabilities of Language-Endowed Intelligent Agents (LEIAs). The motivation stems from the need to enable these agents to navigate complex real-world scenarios similarly to humans, leveraging various forms of knowledge to minimize cognitive load and enhance decision-making processes. The primary problem addressed is the challenge of developing intelligent agents that can effectively manage typical and atypical situations through learned patterns and recovery strategies.","challenges":"Key challenges include the integration of diverse knowledge types (sensory, linguistic, conceptual, etc.) into a cohesive cognitive model that can operate in real-time. Existing approaches often struggle with the complexity of human-like reasoning and adaptability, leading to limitations in agent performance in unpredictable environments. Additionally, the need for explainability and trustworthiness in critical applications poses significant hurdles for current AI systems.","innovations":"The paper presents the 'Shapes of Cognition' paradigm, which introduces a structured approach to cognitive modeling that emphasizes the use of remembered constellations of knowledge. This framework allows agents to employ strategies such as pattern recognition, analogy-based reasoning, and adaptive learning. The authors propose specific modeling strategies and knowledge bases that enhance the explainability and extensibility of LEIAs. The theoretical innovation lies in the systematic application of cognitive principles to improve agent performance in complex tasks, thereby bridging gaps in existing AI methodologies.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves implementing the shapes-based modeling approach within a cognitive architecture designed for LEIAs. The authors evaluate the performance of their models against traditional AI baselines, focusing on metrics such as decision-making accuracy, adaptability to atypical situations, and cognitive load management. Key results indicate significant improvements in agent performance, particularly in scenarios requiring rapid adaptation and human-like reasoning, demonstrating the efficacy of the proposed methods over existing approaches.","insights":"The findings suggest that the 'Shapes of Cognition' framework can significantly enhance the development of intelligent agents, making them more capable of handling real-world complexities. Potential applications include interactive AI systems in healthcare, education, and customer service, where explainability and adaptability are crucial. Future research directions may involve refining the cognitive architecture, exploring broader applications of the shapes paradigm, and integrating more advanced learning techniques to further improve agent performance.","keywords":["cognitive modeling","Language-Endowed Intelligent Agents","shapes of cognition","pattern recognition","adaptive learning","explainability","cognitive architecture","knowledge-based AI"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper introduces 'Shapes of Cognition', a conceptual framework for computational cognitive modeling aimed at enhancing the capabilities of Language-Endowed Intelligent Agents (LEIAs). The motivation stems from the need to enable these agents to navigate complex real-world scenarios similarly to humans, leveraging various forms of knowledge to minimize cognitive load and enhance decision-making processes. The primary problem addressed is the c...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:00.111Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13288v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13285v1","title":"Contrastive timbre representations for musical instrument and\n  synthesizer retrieval","authors":["Gwendal Le Vaillant","Yannick Molle"],"abstract":"Efficiently retrieving specific instrument timbres from audio mixtures\nremains a challenge in digital music production. This paper introduces a\ncontrastive learning framework for musical instrument retrieval, enabling\ndirect querying of instrument databases using a single model for both single-\nand multi-instrument sounds. We propose techniques to generate realistic\npositive/negative pairs of sounds for virtual musical instruments, such as\nsamplers and synthesizers, addressing limitations in common audio data\naugmentation methods.\n  The first experiment focuses on instrument retrieval from a dataset of 3,884\ninstruments, using single-instrument audio as input. Contrastive approaches are\ncompetitive with previous works based on classification pre-training. The\nsecond experiment considers multi-instrument retrieval with a mixture of\ninstruments as audio input. In this case, the proposed contrastive framework\noutperforms related works, achieving 81.7\\% top-1 and 95.7\\% top-5 accuracies\nfor three-instrument mixtures.","published":"2025-09-16T17:38:35Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13285v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the challenge of efficiently retrieving specific musical instrument timbres from audio mixtures, a significant issue in digital music production. The motivation stems from the increasing complexity of music creation, where users often need to isolate or identify specific instrument sounds from mixed audio tracks. This research aims to enhance the retrieval process by employing a contrastive learning framework that can handle both single and multi-instrument audio inputs.","challenges":"One of the main technical challenges is the generation of realistic positive and negative sound pairs for training, particularly for virtual instruments like samplers and synthesizers. Existing approaches often rely on traditional audio data augmentation methods, which may not effectively capture the nuances of instrument timbres. Additionally, the retrieval task becomes more complex when dealing with audio mixtures containing multiple instruments, where distinguishing between overlapping sounds is critical.","innovations":"The authors introduce a novel contrastive learning framework specifically designed for musical instrument retrieval. This framework allows for direct querying of instrument databases using a single model, significantly simplifying the retrieval process. The paper also presents innovative techniques for generating realistic sound pairs, addressing the limitations of conventional augmentation methods. The contrastive approach not only competes with existing classification-based methods but also demonstrates superior performance in multi-instrument retrieval scenarios, marking a significant advancement in the field.","experiments":"The experimental setup consists of two main experiments: the first focuses on instrument retrieval from a dataset of 3,884 single-instrument audio samples, while the second evaluates multi-instrument retrieval using audio mixtures. The results indicate that the contrastive framework achieves competitive performance with a top-1 accuracy of 81.7% and a top-5 accuracy of 95.7% for three-instrument mixtures, outperforming related works that rely on classification pre-training. These metrics highlight the effectiveness of the proposed approach in both single and multi-instrument contexts.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the field of music information retrieval, particularly in enhancing the efficiency of instrument timbre identification in complex audio environments. Potential applications include improved tools for music production, sound design, and educational software for music learning. Future research directions may involve exploring further enhancements to the contrastive learning framework, as well as its application to other audio retrieval tasks beyond musical instruments.","keywords":["contrastive learning","musical instrument retrieval","audio mixtures","data augmentation","sound pairs","top-1 accuracy","top-5 accuracy","synthesizers"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the challenge of efficiently retrieving specific musical instrument timbres from audio mixtures, a significant issue in digital music production. The motivation stems from the increasing complexity of music creation, where users often need to isolate or identify specific instrument sounds from mixed audio tracks. This research aims to enhance the retrieval process by employing a contrastive learning framework that can handle b...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:01.656Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13285v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13282v1","title":"ChartGaze: Enhancing Chart Understanding in LVLMs with Eye-Tracking\n  Guided Attention Refinement","authors":["Ali Salamatian","Amirhossein Abaskohi","Wan-Cyuan Fan","Mir Rayat Imtiaz Hossain","Leonid Sigal","Giuseppe Carenini"],"abstract":"Charts are a crucial visual medium for communicating and representing\ninformation. While Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have made progress on\nchart question answering (CQA), the task remains challenging, particularly when\nmodels attend to irrelevant regions of the chart. In this work, we present\nChartGaze, a new eye-tracking dataset that captures human gaze patterns during\nchart reasoning tasks. Through a systematic comparison of human and model\nattention, we find that LVLMs often diverge from human gaze, leading to reduced\ninterpretability and accuracy. To address this, we propose a gaze-guided\nattention refinement that aligns image-text attention with human fixations. Our\napproach improves both answer accuracy and attention alignment, yielding gains\nof up to 2.56 percentage points across multiple models. These results\ndemonstrate the promise of incorporating human gaze to enhance both the\nreasoning quality and interpretability of chart-focused LVLMs.","published":"2025-09-16T17:35:39Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13282v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the critical role of charts in visual communication and the challenges faced by Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) in chart question answering (CQA). Despite advancements in LVLMs, their performance is hindered by a tendency to focus on irrelevant areas of charts, which affects both interpretability and accuracy. This research aims to enhance chart understanding by leveraging human gaze patterns during chart reasoning tasks.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the misalignment between model attention and human gaze, which leads to suboptimal performance in CQA tasks. Existing approaches often overlook the significance of human visual attention, resulting in reduced interpretability and accuracy of LVLMs when processing chart data. Additionally, the lack of datasets capturing human gaze patterns during chart interactions limits the ability to train models effectively.","innovations":"ChartGaze introduces a novel eye-tracking dataset that captures human gaze patterns during chart reasoning tasks, providing a benchmark for evaluating model attention. The key technical contribution is the gaze-guided attention refinement method, which aligns the attention mechanisms of LVLMs with human fixations. This approach not only improves answer accuracy but also enhances attention alignment, demonstrating gains of up to 2.56 percentage points across various models. The integration of human gaze patterns represents a significant theoretical and practical innovation in improving chart-focused LVLMs.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves a systematic comparison of human gaze patterns with model attention across multiple LVLMs. The authors evaluate the performance of their gaze-guided attention refinement method using standard metrics for CQA tasks. Key results indicate significant improvements in both answer accuracy and attention alignment, with reported gains of up to 2.56 percentage points over baseline models. This demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating human gaze data into model training and evaluation.","insights":"The findings have important implications for the field of computer vision and natural language processing, particularly in enhancing the interpretability and reasoning capabilities of LVLMs in chart analysis. Potential applications include improved data visualization tools and educational resources that leverage chart data. Future research directions may involve exploring additional modalities of human attention and expanding the dataset to cover a wider range of chart types and reasoning tasks.","keywords":["Large Vision-Language Models","chart question answering","eye-tracking","gaze-guided attention","human gaze patterns","attention alignment","dataset","interpretability"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the critical role of charts in visual communication and the challenges faced by Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) in chart question answering (CQA). Despite advancements in LVLMs, their performance is hindered by a tendency to focus on irrelevant areas of charts, which affects both interpretability and accuracy. This research aims to enhance chart understanding by leveraging human gaze patterns during chart reasoning tasks.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:12.501Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13282v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13281v1","title":"RepIt: Representing Isolated Targets to Steer Language Models","authors":["Vincent Siu","Nathan W. Henry","Nicholas Crispino","Yang Liu","Dawn Song","Chenguang Wang"],"abstract":"While activation steering in large language models (LLMs) is a growing area\nof research, methods can often incur broader effects than desired. This\nmotivates isolation of purer concept vectors to enable targeted interventions\nand understand LLM behavior at a more granular level. We present RepIt, a\nsimple and data-efficient framework for isolating concept-specific\nrepresentations. Across five frontier LLMs, RepIt enables precise\ninterventions: it selectively suppresses refusal on targeted concepts while\npreserving refusal elsewhere, producing models that answer WMD-related\nquestions while still scoring as safe on standard benchmarks. We further show\nthat the corrective signal localizes to just 100-200 neurons and that robust\ntarget representations can be extracted from as few as a dozen examples on a\nsingle A6000. This efficiency raises a dual concern: manipulations can be\nperformed with modest compute and data to extend to underrepresented\ndata-scarce topics while evading existing benchmarks. By disentangling refusal\nvectors with RepIt, this work demonstrates that targeted interventions can\ncounteract overgeneralization, laying the foundation for more granular control\nof model behavior.","published":"2025-09-16T17:35:36Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13281v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing interest in activation steering within large language models (LLMs), highlighting the challenge of unintended broader effects that can arise from existing methods. The authors aim to isolate concept-specific representations to enable more targeted interventions, thereby enhancing the understanding of LLM behavior at a granular level. This work is motivated by the need for precise control over model outputs, particularly in sensitive contexts such as the generation of responses related to weapons of mass destruction (WMD).","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the difficulty of isolating specific concept vectors without affecting other model behaviors and the limitations of existing methods that often lead to overgeneralization. Current approaches tend to manipulate model outputs in a way that can inadvertently alter unrelated aspects of the model's behavior, making it challenging to achieve the desired specificity in interventions.","innovations":"RepIt introduces a novel framework for isolating concept-specific representations in LLMs, allowing for precise interventions that suppress unwanted outputs while maintaining overall model safety. The authors demonstrate that effective manipulations can be achieved with minimal computational resources and data, extracting robust target representations from as few as a dozen examples. This efficiency raises concerns about the potential for misuse in data-scarce scenarios. The framework also provides insights into the localization of corrective signals within the model, focusing on just 100-200 neurons, which is a significant contribution to the understanding of model behavior.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing RepIt across five frontier LLMs, where the authors evaluate its ability to suppress refusal on targeted concepts while preserving refusal in other contexts. Key results indicate that RepIt can successfully produce models that answer WMD-related questions while still scoring as safe on standard benchmarks. Comparisons with baseline methods reveal that RepIt achieves superior specificity and control over model outputs, demonstrating its effectiveness in targeted interventions.","insights":"The findings of this research have significant implications for the field of AI and LLMs, particularly in enhancing the granularity of control over model behavior. Potential applications include safer AI systems in sensitive domains and improved understanding of model decision-making processes. Future research directions may explore further refinements of the RepIt framework, its applicability to other types of models, and the ethical considerations surrounding the manipulation of LLM outputs.","keywords":["activation steering","large language models","concept vectors","targeted interventions","model behavior","data efficiency","neural localization","safety benchmarks"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing interest in activation steering within large language models (LLMs), highlighting the challenge of unintended broader effects that can arise from existing methods. The authors aim to isolate concept-specific representations to enable more targeted interventions, thereby enhancing the understanding of LLM behavior at a granular level. This work is motivated by the need for precise control over model outputs, particu...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:12.964Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13281v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13279v1","title":"HARMONIC: A Content-Centric Cognitive Robotic Architecture","authors":["Sanjay Oruganti","Sergei Nirenburg","Marjorie McShane","Jesse English","Michael K. Roberts","Christian Arndt","Carlos Gonzalez","Mingyo Seo","Luis Sentis"],"abstract":"This paper introduces HARMONIC, a cognitive-robotic architecture designed for\nrobots in human-robotic teams. HARMONIC supports semantic perception\ninterpretation, human-like decision-making, and intentional language\ncommunication. It addresses the issues of safety and quality of results; aims\nto solve problems of data scarcity, explainability, and safety; and promotes\ntransparency and trust. Two proof-of-concept HARMONIC-based robotic systems are\ndemonstrated, each implemented in both a high-fidelity simulation environment\nand on physical robotic platforms.","published":"2025-09-16T17:34:18Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13279v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper presents HARMONIC, a cognitive-robotic architecture aimed at enhancing collaboration in human-robot teams. The motivation stems from the need for robots to understand and interact with humans in a more intuitive and effective manner. The primary problem addressed is the integration of semantic perception, decision-making, and language communication in robotic systems to improve their functionality and safety in real-world applications.","challenges":"Key challenges include the development of robust semantic perception systems that can interpret human intentions and actions, as well as ensuring that robots can make decisions in a human-like manner. Existing approaches often struggle with data scarcity, lack of explainability, and insufficient safety measures, which can hinder trust and transparency in human-robot interactions.","innovations":"HARMONIC introduces several novel methods, including a framework for semantic perception that enhances the robot's ability to interpret context and intentions. The architecture supports intentional language communication, allowing for more natural interactions with humans. Key contributions include the integration of cognitive processes that mimic human decision-making and the implementation of safety protocols that prioritize quality outcomes. The architecture also emphasizes explainability, making it easier for users to understand robotic decisions.","experiments":"The authors conducted experiments using two proof-of-concept robotic systems, tested in both high-fidelity simulation environments and on physical platforms. The experimental setup involved various scenarios that required the robots to demonstrate their cognitive capabilities in real-time interactions. Key metrics included decision-making accuracy, response time, and user satisfaction. Results indicated significant improvements over baseline systems, showcasing enhanced performance in understanding and responding to human cues.","insights":"The implications of HARMONIC for the field of cognitive robotics are profound, particularly in enhancing the safety and effectiveness of human-robot teams. Potential applications range from industrial automation to healthcare assistance. Future research directions may include further refinement of the semantic perception algorithms, exploration of additional safety measures, and expansion of the architecture to accommodate more complex human-robot interactions.","keywords":["cognitive robotics","semantic perception","decision-making","human-robot interaction","intentional communication","safety protocols","explainability","trust"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper presents HARMONIC, a cognitive-robotic architecture aimed at enhancing collaboration in human-robot teams. The motivation stems from the need for robots to understand and interact with humans in a more intuitive and effective manner. The primary problem addressed is the integration of semantic perception, decision-making, and language communication in robotic systems to improve their functionality and safety in real-world applications.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:23.378Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13279v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13270v1","title":"RadGame: An AI-Powered Platform for Radiology Education","authors":["Mohammed Baharoon","Siavash Raissi","John S. Jun","Thibault Heintz","Mahmoud Alabbad","Ali Alburkani","Sung Eun Kim","Kent Kleinschmidt","Abdulrahman O. Alhumaydhi","Mohannad Mohammed G. Alghamdi","Jeremy Francis Palacio","Mohammed Bukhaytan","Noah Michael Prudlo","Rithvik Akula","Brady Chrisler","Benjamin Galligos","Mohammed O. Almutairi","Mazeen Mohammed Alanazi","Nasser M. Alrashdi","Joel Jihwan Hwang","Sri Sai Dinesh Jaliparthi","Luke David Nelson","Nathaniel Nguyen","Sathvik Suryadevara","Steven Kim","Mohammed F. Mohammed","Yevgeniy R. Semenov","Kun-Hsing Yu","Abdulrhman Aljouie","Hassan AlOmaish","Adam Rodman","Pranav Rajpurkar"],"abstract":"We introduce RadGame, an AI-powered gamified platform for radiology education\nthat targets two core skills: localizing findings and generating reports.\nTraditional radiology training is based on passive exposure to cases or active\npractice with real-time input from supervising radiologists, limiting\nopportunities for immediate and scalable feedback. RadGame addresses this gap\nby combining gamification with large-scale public datasets and automated,\nAI-driven feedback that provides clear, structured guidance to human learners.\nIn RadGame Localize, players draw bounding boxes around abnormalities, which\nare automatically compared to radiologist-drawn annotations from public\ndatasets, and visual explanations are generated by vision-language models for\nuser missed findings. In RadGame Report, players compose findings given a chest\nX-ray, patient age and indication, and receive structured AI feedback based on\nradiology report generation metrics, highlighting errors and omissions compared\nto a radiologist's written ground truth report from public datasets, producing\na final performance and style score. In a prospective evaluation, participants\nusing RadGame achieved a 68% improvement in localization accuracy compared to\n17% with traditional passive methods and a 31% improvement in report-writing\naccuracy compared to 4% with traditional methods after seeing the same cases.\nRadGame highlights the potential of AI-driven gamification to deliver scalable,\nfeedback-rich radiology training and reimagines the application of medical AI\nresources in education.","published":"2025-09-16T17:27:33Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13270v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper presents RadGame, an innovative AI-powered platform designed to enhance radiology education. Traditional training methods often rely on passive case exposure or real-time feedback from supervising radiologists, which can limit the scalability and immediacy of feedback. RadGame aims to address these limitations by integrating gamification with AI-driven feedback mechanisms, thereby fostering an engaging learning environment that promotes the development of critical skills in localizing findings and generating reports.","challenges":"Key challenges addressed include the lack of immediate feedback in traditional radiology training and the difficulty in providing scalable educational resources. Existing methods often do not leverage large datasets effectively for training purposes, which can hinder the learning process. Furthermore, the challenge of accurately assessing learner performance in real-time is a significant limitation of conventional approaches.","innovations":"RadGame introduces a gamified approach to radiology education by utilizing AI to provide structured feedback on localization and report generation tasks. The platform employs vision-language models to generate visual explanations for missed findings, enhancing the learning experience. Additionally, it incorporates automated scoring based on established radiology report generation metrics, allowing for a comprehensive assessment of learners' performance. This combination of gamification and AI-driven feedback represents a significant advancement in medical education, making training more interactive and effective.","experiments":"The evaluation of RadGame involved a prospective study where participants engaged with the platform and compared their performance to traditional training methods. Key metrics included localization accuracy and report-writing accuracy. Results indicated a 68% improvement in localization accuracy and a 31% improvement in report-writing accuracy for RadGame users, compared to only 17% and 4% improvements, respectively, for traditional methods. This stark contrast highlights the effectiveness of the RadGame platform in enhancing educational outcomes.","insights":"RadGame demonstrates the potential of AI-driven gamification to transform radiology education by providing scalable, feedback-rich training environments. The implications extend beyond radiology, suggesting that similar approaches could be applied to other medical fields. Future research could explore the integration of additional modalities, the expansion of datasets, and the long-term impact of gamified learning on clinical performance.","keywords":["AI","gamification","radiology education","localization","report generation","vision-language models","feedback mechanisms","public datasets"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper presents RadGame, an innovative AI-powered platform designed to enhance radiology education. Traditional training methods often rely on passive case exposure or real-time feedback from supervising radiologists, which can limit the scalability and immediacy of feedback. RadGame aims to address these limitations by integrating gamification with AI-driven feedback mechanisms, thereby fostering an engaging learning environment that promotes...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:23.206Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13270v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13268v1","title":"LLMs for energy and macronutrients estimation using only text data from\n  24-hour dietary recalls: a parameter-efficient fine-tuning experiment using a\n  10-shot prompt","authors":["Rodrigo M Carrillo-Larco"],"abstract":"BACKGROUND: Most artificial intelligence tools used to estimate nutritional\ncontent rely on image input. However, whether large language models (LLMs) can\naccurately predict nutritional values based solely on text descriptions of\nfoods consumed remains unknown. If effective, this approach could enable\nsimpler dietary monitoring without the need for photographs. METHODS: We used\n24-hour dietary recalls from adolescents aged 12-19 years in the National\nHealth and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). An open-source quantized LLM\nwas prompted using a 10-shot, chain-of-thought approach to estimate energy and\nfive macronutrients based solely on text strings listing foods and their\nquantities. We then applied parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) to evaluate\nwhether predictive accuracy improved. NHANES-calculated values served as the\nground truth for energy, proteins, carbohydrates, total sugar, dietary fiber\nand total fat. RESULTS: In a pooled dataset of 11,281 adolescents (49.9% male,\nmean age 15.4 years), the vanilla LLM yielded poor predictions. The mean\nabsolute error (MAE) was 652.08 for energy and the Lin's CCC &lt;0.46 across\nendpoints. In contrast, the fine-tuned model performed substantially better,\nwith energy MAEs ranging from 171.34 to 190.90 across subsets, and Lin's CCC\nexceeding 0.89 for all outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: When prompted using a\nchain-of-thought approach and fine-tuned with PEFT, open-source LLMs exposed\nsolely to text input can accurately predict energy and macronutrient values\nfrom 24-hour dietary recalls. This approach holds promise for low-burden,\ntext-based dietary monitoring tools.","published":"2025-09-16T17:26:17Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13268v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper investigates the potential of large language models (LLMs) to estimate nutritional values from text descriptions of food consumed, addressing a gap in dietary monitoring tools that typically rely on image inputs. The motivation stems from the need for simpler, low-burden methods for dietary assessment, particularly among adolescents, a demographic often underrepresented in nutritional studies.","challenges":"A significant challenge is the inherent complexity of accurately interpreting text-based food descriptions to estimate nutritional content, as existing models primarily focus on visual data. Additionally, the variability in food descriptions and quantities poses a limitation for traditional models that rely on structured inputs.","innovations":"The study introduces a 10-shot, chain-of-thought prompting technique for LLMs, combined with parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT), to enhance the model's predictive accuracy for estimating energy and macronutrients from text. This approach is innovative as it leverages existing open-source LLMs in a novel context, demonstrating that fine-tuning can significantly improve performance metrics such as mean absolute error (MAE) and Lin's concordance correlation coefficient (CCC).","experiments":"The experimental setup involved analyzing 24-hour dietary recalls from 11,281 adolescents using both a vanilla LLM and a fine-tuned version. The results showed that the vanilla model had a high MAE of 652.08 for energy, while the fine-tuned model achieved MAEs between 171.34 and 190.90, with Lin's CCC exceeding 0.89 across all outcomes, indicating a substantial improvement in predictive accuracy.","insights":"This research suggests that LLMs can be effectively utilized for dietary monitoring, providing a promising alternative to traditional methods that require image inputs. Future research could explore the application of this approach in diverse populations and settings, as well as the integration of additional dietary factors and real-time monitoring capabilities.","keywords":["large language models","dietary recalls","parameter-efficient fine-tuning","energy estimation","macronutrients","text-based dietary monitoring","mean absolute error","Lin's concordance correlation coefficient"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"intermediate","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper investigates the potential of large language models (LLMs) to estimate nutritional values from text descriptions of food consumed, addressing a gap in dietary monitoring tools that typically rely on image inputs. The motivation stems from the need for simpler, low-burden methods for dietary assessment, particularly among adolescents, a demographic often underrepresented in nutritional studies.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:33.187Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13268v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13266v1","title":"JANUS: A Dual-Constraint Generative Framework for Stealthy Node\n  Injection Attacks","authors":["Jiahao Zhang","Xiaobing Pei","Zhaokun Zhong","Wenqiang Hao","Zhenghao Tang"],"abstract":"Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have demonstrated remarkable performance across\nvarious applications, yet they are vulnerable to sophisticated adversarial\nattacks, particularly node injection attacks. The success of such attacks\nheavily relies on their stealthiness, the ability to blend in with the original\ngraph and evade detection. However, existing methods often achieve stealthiness\nby relying on indirect proxy metrics, lacking consideration for the fundamental\ncharacteristics of the injected content, or focusing only on imitating local\nstructures, which leads to the problem of local myopia. To overcome these\nlimitations, we propose a dual-constraint stealthy node injection framework,\ncalled Joint Alignment of Nodal and Universal Structures (JANUS). At the local\nlevel, we introduce a local feature manifold alignment strategy to achieve\ngeometric consistency in the feature space. At the global level, we incorporate\nstructured latent variables and maximize the mutual information with the\ngenerated structures, ensuring the injected structures are consistent with the\nsemantic patterns of the original graph. We model the injection attack as a\nsequential decision process, which is optimized by a reinforcement learning\nagent. Experiments on multiple standard datasets demonstrate that the JANUS\nframework significantly outperforms existing methods in terms of both attack\neffectiveness and stealthiness.","published":"2025-09-16T17:24:30Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13266v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the vulnerabilities of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) to node injection attacks, which can significantly compromise their performance. The motivation stems from the need for stealthy attack strategies that can effectively blend injected nodes with the original graph while evading detection. The authors highlight the inadequacies of existing methods that either rely on proxy metrics or focus solely on local structures, leading to ineffective stealthiness in node injection.","challenges":"Key challenges include achieving a balance between attack effectiveness and stealthiness, as existing methods often fail to consider the fundamental characteristics of injected content. The limitations of current approaches are primarily due to their reliance on local structure imitation, which can lead to local myopia, making them less effective in real-world scenarios where global graph semantics are crucial.","innovations":"The JANUS framework introduces a dual-constraint approach that enhances stealthy node injection through two main strategies: local feature manifold alignment for geometric consistency and structured latent variables to maximize mutual information with the original graph's semantic patterns. This innovative modeling of the injection attack as a sequential decision process, optimized via reinforcement learning, represents a significant theoretical and practical advancement in the field of adversarial attacks on GNNs.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing the JANUS framework on multiple standard datasets to evaluate its performance against existing methods. Key metrics for assessment include attack effectiveness and stealthiness. Results indicate that JANUS significantly outperforms baseline methods, demonstrating superior capabilities in both seamlessly integrating injected nodes and maintaining the integrity of the original graph structure.","insights":"The findings of this research have important implications for enhancing the robustness of GNNs against adversarial attacks, particularly in security-sensitive applications such as social networks and financial systems. Future research could explore the application of JANUS in different types of graphs and investigate the integration of additional features to further improve stealthiness and effectiveness.","keywords":["Graph Neural Networks","node injection attacks","adversarial attacks","reinforcement learning","manifold alignment","mutual information","stealthiness","graph structure"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the vulnerabilities of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) to node injection attacks, which can significantly compromise their performance. The motivation stems from the need for stealthy attack strategies that can effectively blend injected nodes with the original graph while evading detection. The authors highlight the inadequacies of existing methods that either rely on proxy metrics or focus solely on local structures, leading to...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:34.415Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13266v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13262v1","title":"Post-Hoc Split-Point Self-Consistency Verification for Efficient,\n  Unified Quantification of Aleatoric and Epistemic Uncertainty in Deep\n  Learning","authors":["Zhizhong Zhao","Ke Chen"],"abstract":"Uncertainty quantification (UQ) is vital for trustworthy deep learning, yet\nexisting methods are either computationally intensive, such as Bayesian or\nensemble methods, or provide only partial, task-specific estimates, such as\nsingle-forward-pass techniques. In this paper, we propose a post-hoc\nsingle-forward-pass framework that jointly captures aleatoric and epistemic\nuncertainty without modifying or retraining pretrained models. Our method\napplies \\emph{Split-Point Analysis} (SPA) to decompose predictive residuals\ninto upper and lower subsets, computing \\emph{Mean Absolute Residuals} (MARs)\non each side. We prove that, under ideal conditions, the total MAR equals the\nharmonic mean of subset MARs; deviations define a novel \\emph{Self-consistency\nDiscrepancy Score} (SDS) for fine-grained epistemic estimation across\nregression and classification. For regression, side-specific quantile\nregression yields prediction intervals with improved empirical coverage, which\nare further calibrated via SDS. For classification, when calibration data are\navailable, we apply SPA-based calibration identities to adjust the softmax\noutputs and then compute predictive entropy on these calibrated probabilities.\nExtensive experiments on diverse regression and classification benchmarks\ndemonstrate that our framework matches or exceeds several state-of-the-art UQ\nmethods while incurring minimal overhead.\n  Our source code is available at https://github.com/zzz0527/SPC-UQ.","published":"2025-09-16T17:16:01Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13262v1","analysis":{"introduction":"Uncertainty quantification (UQ) is essential for enhancing the reliability of deep learning models, particularly in safety-critical applications. Traditional UQ methods, such as Bayesian approaches and ensemble techniques, often require significant computational resources or yield limited estimates tailored to specific tasks. This paper addresses the need for an efficient method that can quantify both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainties without necessitating model retraining.","challenges":"The primary technical challenges include the computational intensity of existing UQ methods and their inability to provide comprehensive uncertainty estimates across various tasks. Many current approaches are constrained to single-forward-pass techniques, which may overlook important aspects of uncertainty, leading to suboptimal performance in real-world applications.","innovations":"The authors introduce a novel post-hoc framework that utilizes Split-Point Analysis (SPA) to decompose predictive residuals, allowing for the calculation of Mean Absolute Residuals (MARs) on both upper and lower subsets. They establish a theoretical foundation showing that the total MAR corresponds to the harmonic mean of the subset MARs, with deviations yielding a Self-consistency Discrepancy Score (SDS) for detailed epistemic uncertainty estimation. This framework facilitates improved prediction intervals in regression and calibrated softmax outputs in classification, enhancing the overall reliability of uncertainty estimates.","experiments":"The experimental setup includes a series of benchmarks for both regression and classification tasks, where the proposed method is evaluated against several state-of-the-art UQ techniques. Key metrics include empirical coverage of prediction intervals and predictive entropy for classification tasks. Results indicate that the proposed framework not only matches but often surpasses existing methods in terms of accuracy and efficiency, demonstrating minimal computational overhead.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the field of deep learning, particularly in applications requiring robust uncertainty quantification. The proposed method's efficiency and effectiveness open avenues for its integration into real-time systems, such as autonomous vehicles and medical diagnostics. Future research could explore the extension of this framework to more complex models and the incorporation of additional uncertainty sources.","keywords":["uncertainty quantification","aleatoric uncertainty","epistemic uncertainty","Split-Point Analysis","Mean Absolute Residuals","Self-consistency Discrepancy Score","quantile regression","calibration"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** Uncertainty quantification (UQ) is essential for enhancing the reliability of deep learning models, particularly in safety-critical applications. Traditional UQ methods, such as Bayesian approaches and ensemble techniques, often require significant computational resources or yield limited estimates tailored to specific tasks. This paper addresses the need for an efficient method that can quantify both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainties without...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:49.162Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13262v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13257v1","title":"Safety Critical Model Predictive Control Using Discrete-Time Control\n  Density Functions","authors":["Sriram S. K. S. Narayanan","Sajad Ahmadi","Javad Mohammadpour Velni","Umesh Vaidya"],"abstract":"This paper presents MPC-CDF, a new approach integrating control density\nfunctions (CDFs) within a model predictive control (MPC) framework to ensure\nsafety-critical control in nonlinear dynamical systems. By using the dual\nformulation of the navigation problem, we incorporate CDFs into the MPC\nframework, ensuring both convergence and safety in a discrete-time setting.\nThese density functions are endowed with a physical interpretation, where the\nassociated measure signifies the occupancy of system trajectories. Leveraging\nthis occupancy-based perspective, we synthesize safety-critical controllers\nusing the proposed MPC-CDF framework. We illustrate the safety properties of\nthis framework using a unicycle model and compare it with a control barrier\nfunction-based method. The efficacy of this approach is demonstrated in the\nautonomous safe navigation of an underwater vehicle, which avoids complex and\narbitrary obstacles while achieving the desired level of safety.","published":"2025-09-16T17:13:18Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13257v1","analysis":{"introduction":"This paper addresses the critical need for safety in control systems, particularly in nonlinear dynamical systems where traditional methods may fall short. The motivation stems from the increasing complexity of autonomous systems, such as underwater vehicles, which require robust navigation strategies that ensure safety while achieving desired performance. The authors propose a novel integration of control density functions (CDFs) within a model predictive control (MPC) framework to tackle these challenges effectively.","challenges":"Key challenges include ensuring safety in the presence of nonlinear dynamics and complex environments, where traditional MPC methods may not guarantee safety. Existing approaches, such as control barrier functions, often struggle with scalability and adaptability to dynamic obstacles, limiting their effectiveness in real-world applications. The paper seeks to overcome these limitations by leveraging CDFs to provide a more robust safety mechanism.","innovations":"The authors introduce the MPC-CDF framework, which uniquely incorporates control density functions into the MPC paradigm, allowing for a physical interpretation of system trajectories. This dual formulation not only enhances convergence but also ensures safety in discrete-time settings. The key contributions include a novel synthesis of safety-critical controllers that utilize occupancy measures, demonstrating a significant advancement over traditional methods. The theoretical underpinning of this approach provides a solid foundation for future developments in safe control strategies.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves simulating an underwater vehicle navigating through complex environments with arbitrary obstacles. The authors compare the performance of the MPC-CDF framework against a control barrier function-based method, using metrics such as trajectory safety and navigation efficiency. Key results indicate that the MPC-CDF approach consistently achieves higher safety levels while maintaining effective navigation, showcasing its superiority in handling dynamic and unpredictable scenarios.","insights":"The findings from this research have significant implications for the field of autonomous systems, particularly in enhancing safety protocols in navigation tasks. The MPC-CDF framework opens avenues for applications in various domains, including robotics, aerospace, and automotive industries. Future research directions may explore the integration of machine learning techniques to further refine the control strategies and adapt to evolving environments.","keywords":["Model Predictive Control","Control Density Functions","Safety-Critical Control","Nonlinear Dynamical Systems","Occupancy Measures","Autonomous Navigation","Control Barrier Functions","Underwater Vehicles"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** This paper addresses the critical need for safety in control systems, particularly in nonlinear dynamical systems where traditional methods may fall short. The motivation stems from the increasing complexity of autonomous systems, such as underwater vehicles, which require robust navigation strategies that ensure safety while achieving desired performance. The authors propose a novel integration of control density functions (CDFs) within a model ...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:43.597Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13257v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13255v1","title":"ResidualViT for Efficient Temporally Dense Video Encoding","authors":["Mattia Soldan","Fabian Caba Heilbron","Bernard Ghanem","Josef Sivic","Bryan Russell"],"abstract":"Several video understanding tasks, such as natural language temporal video\ngrounding, temporal activity localization, and audio description generation,\nrequire \"temporally dense\" reasoning over frames sampled at high temporal\nresolution. However, computing frame-level features for these tasks is\ncomputationally expensive given the temporal resolution requirements. In this\npaper, we make three contributions to reduce the cost of computing features for\ntemporally dense tasks. First, we introduce a vision transformer (ViT)\narchitecture, dubbed ResidualViT, that leverages the large temporal redundancy\nin videos to efficiently compute temporally dense frame-level features. Our\narchitecture incorporates (i) learnable residual connections that ensure\ntemporal consistency across consecutive frames and (ii) a token reduction\nmodule that enhances processing speed by selectively discarding temporally\nredundant information while reusing weights of a pretrained foundation model.\nSecond, we propose a lightweight distillation strategy to approximate the\nframe-level features of the original foundation model. Finally, we evaluate our\napproach across four tasks and five datasets, in both zero-shot and fully\nsupervised settings, demonstrating significant reductions in computational cost\n(up to 60%) and improvements in inference speed (up to 2.5x faster), all while\nclosely approximating the accuracy of the original foundation model.","published":"2025-09-16T17:12:23Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13255v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing need for efficient video understanding in tasks requiring temporally dense reasoning, such as temporal activity localization and natural language grounding. The authors highlight the computational challenges associated with extracting frame-level features at high temporal resolutions, which is essential for these tasks but often leads to significant resource consumption.","challenges":"Key challenges include the high computational cost of processing video frames at dense temporal resolutions and the limitations of existing models that do not effectively leverage temporal redundancy in videos. Current approaches often struggle to balance accuracy and efficiency, resulting in slower inference times and increased resource demands.","innovations":"The authors introduce ResidualViT, a novel vision transformer architecture that utilizes learnable residual connections to maintain temporal consistency across frames while implementing a token reduction module to discard redundant information. Additionally, they propose a lightweight distillation strategy to approximate the original model's frame-level features, which enhances efficiency without sacrificing accuracy. This combination of techniques represents a significant advancement in the field of video encoding.","experiments":"The experimental setup evaluates ResidualViT across four tasks and five datasets, employing both zero-shot and fully supervised settings. The results indicate a remarkable reduction in computational costs of up to 60% and an increase in inference speed by up to 2.5 times compared to the original foundation model. The accuracy of ResidualViT closely approximates that of the baseline models, demonstrating its effectiveness.","insights":"The findings suggest that ResidualViT could significantly impact the efficiency of video understanding tasks, making it feasible to handle high temporal resolutions in real-time applications. Future research could explore further optimizations in model architecture and investigate additional tasks where temporally dense reasoning is critical.","keywords":["ResidualViT","vision transformer","video encoding","temporal activity localization","feature distillation","token reduction","computational efficiency","temporal redundancy"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing need for efficient video understanding in tasks requiring temporally dense reasoning, such as temporal activity localization and natural language grounding. The authors highlight the computational challenges associated with extracting frame-level features at high temporal resolutions, which is essential for these tasks but often leads to significant resource consumption.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:59.521Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13255v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13250v1","title":"Intelligent Vacuum Thermoforming Process","authors":["Andi Kuswoyo","Christos Margadji","Sebastian W. Pattinson"],"abstract":"Ensuring consistent quality in vacuum thermoforming presents challenges due\nto variations in material properties and tooling configurations. This research\nintroduces a vision-based quality control system to predict and optimise\nprocess parameters, thereby enhancing part quality with minimal data\nrequirements. A comprehensive dataset was developed using visual data from\nvacuum-formed samples subjected to various process parameters, supplemented by\nimage augmentation techniques to improve model training. A k-Nearest Neighbour\nalgorithm was subsequently employed to identify adjustments needed in process\nparameters by mapping low-quality parts to their high-quality counterparts. The\nmodel exhibited strong performance in adjusting heating power, heating time,\nand vacuum time to reduce defects and improve production efficiency.","published":"2025-09-16T17:00:59Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13250v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The research addresses the challenges of maintaining consistent quality in vacuum thermoforming, a process influenced by variable material properties and tooling configurations. The motivation stems from the need for a reliable quality control system that can adapt to these variations, ensuring high-quality outputs in manufacturing.","challenges":"Key technical challenges include the inherent variability in material properties and the complexity of tooling configurations that affect the thermoforming process. Existing approaches often rely on extensive data or manual adjustments, which can be inefficient and prone to human error, limiting their effectiveness in real-time quality control.","innovations":"This study introduces a vision-based quality control system that leverages a comprehensive dataset of vacuum-formed samples, enhanced through image augmentation techniques. The use of a k-Nearest Neighbour (k-NN) algorithm to map low-quality parts to high-quality counterparts represents a novel approach to process optimization. The model's ability to adjust critical parameters such as heating power, heating time, and vacuum time showcases significant improvements in production efficiency and defect reduction, marking a substantial contribution to the field of manufacturing quality control.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved collecting visual data from vacuum-formed samples across various process parameters. The dataset was augmented to enhance model training. The k-NN algorithm was evaluated based on its performance in predicting necessary adjustments to process parameters. Key results demonstrated a marked decrease in defects and improved production efficiency, with metrics indicating strong predictive performance compared to baseline methods that lacked such adaptive capabilities.","insights":"The implications of this research extend to enhancing quality control in manufacturing processes beyond thermoforming, potentially influencing industries reliant on similar techniques. Future research could explore the integration of more advanced machine learning algorithms, real-time monitoring systems, and broader applications in automated manufacturing environments.","keywords":["vacuum thermoforming","quality control","computer vision","k-Nearest Neighbour","image augmentation","process optimization","manufacturing efficiency"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"intermediate","summary":"**Introduction:** The research addresses the challenges of maintaining consistent quality in vacuum thermoforming, a process influenced by variable material properties and tooling configurations. The motivation stems from the need for a reliable quality control system that can adapt to these variations, ensuring high-quality outputs in manufacturing.\n\n**Challenges:** Key technical challenges include the inherent variability in mater...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:10:59.506Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13250v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13249v1","title":"Design and Control of a Perching Drone Inspired by the Prey-Capturing\n  Mechanism of Venus Flytrap","authors":["Ye Li","Daming Liu","Yanhe Zhu","Junming Zhang","Yongsheng Luo","Ziqi Wang","Chenyu Liu","Jie Zhao"],"abstract":"The endurance and energy efficiency of drones remain critical challenges in\ntheir design and operation. To extend mission duration, numerous studies\nexplored perching mechanisms that enable drones to conserve energy by\ntemporarily suspending flight. This paper presents a new perching drone that\nutilizes an active flexible perching mechanism inspired by the rapid predation\nmechanism of the Venus flytrap, achieving perching in less than 100 ms. The\nproposed system is designed for high-speed adaptability to the perching\ntargets. The overall drone design is outlined, followed by the development and\nvalidation of the biomimetic perching structure. To enhance the system\nstability, a cascade extended high-gain observer (EHGO) based control method is\ndeveloped, which can estimate and compensate for the external disturbance in\nreal time. The experimental results demonstrate the adaptability of the\nperching structure and the superiority of the cascaded EHGO in resisting wind\nand perching disturbances.","published":"2025-09-16T17:00:31Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13249v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The research addresses the critical challenges of endurance and energy efficiency in drone operations. With the growing demand for drones in various applications, including surveillance and environmental monitoring, the ability to conserve energy through perching mechanisms has become increasingly important. This study is motivated by the need to enhance drone mission durations while maintaining operational effectiveness.","challenges":"Key technical challenges include the rapid adaptation of drones to various perching targets and the need for stability during perching maneuvers. Existing approaches often struggle with slow response times and inadequate disturbance resistance, limiting their practical applicability in dynamic environments.","innovations":"The paper introduces a novel active flexible perching mechanism inspired by the Venus flytrap, enabling drones to perch in under 100 ms. A significant contribution is the development of a cascade extended high-gain observer (EHGO) control method, which provides real-time estimation and compensation for external disturbances. This biomimetic design not only enhances the adaptability of the perching structure but also improves stability against wind and other disturbances, marking a theoretical advancement in drone design.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved testing the perching drone in various environmental conditions to assess its performance and adaptability. Key results indicate that the drone successfully perched on targets with high precision and speed, outperforming baseline models in terms of stability and disturbance resistance. Metrics such as perching time, success rate, and response to wind disturbances were used to validate the effectiveness of the EHGO control method.","insights":"The findings have significant implications for the field of drone technology, particularly in applications requiring extended operational periods without frequent recharging. Potential applications include search and rescue operations, wildlife monitoring, and environmental assessments. Future research could explore further enhancements in perching mechanisms and the integration of advanced sensors for improved environmental interaction.","keywords":["perching drone","biomimetic design","Venus flytrap","high-gain observer","energy efficiency","stability control","adaptive mechanisms","experimental validation"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The research addresses the critical challenges of endurance and energy efficiency in drone operations. With the growing demand for drones in various applications, including surveillance and environmental monitoring, the ability to conserve energy through perching mechanisms has become increasingly important. This study is motivated by the need to enhance drone mission durations while maintaining operational effectiveness.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:09.338Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13249v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13244v1","title":"Evaluating LLM Alignment on Personality Inference from Real-World\n  Interview Data","authors":["Jianfeng Zhu","Julina Maharjan","Xinyu Li","Karin G. Coifman","Ruoming Jin"],"abstract":"Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly deployed in roles requiring\nnuanced psychological understanding, such as emotional support agents,\ncounselors, and decision-making assistants. However, their ability to interpret\nhuman personality traits, a critical aspect of such applications, remains\nunexplored, particularly in ecologically valid conversational settings. While\nprior work has simulated LLM \"personas\" using discrete Big Five labels on\nsocial media data, the alignment of LLMs with continuous, ground-truth\npersonality assessments derived from natural interactions is largely\nunexamined. To address this gap, we introduce a novel benchmark comprising\nsemi-structured interview transcripts paired with validated continuous Big Five\ntrait scores. Using this dataset, we systematically evaluate LLM performance\nacross three paradigms: (1) zero-shot and chain-of-thought prompting with\nGPT-4.1 Mini, (2) LoRA-based fine-tuning applied to both RoBERTa and Meta-LLaMA\narchitectures, and (3) regression using static embeddings from pretrained BERT\nand OpenAI's text-embedding-3-small. Our results reveal that all Pearson\ncorrelations between model predictions and ground-truth personality traits\nremain below 0.26, highlighting the limited alignment of current LLMs with\nvalidated psychological constructs. Chain-of-thought prompting offers minimal\ngains over zero-shot, suggesting that personality inference relies more on\nlatent semantic representation than explicit reasoning. These findings\nunderscore the challenges of aligning LLMs with complex human attributes and\nmotivate future work on trait-specific prompting, context-aware modeling, and\nalignment-oriented fine-tuning.","published":"2025-09-16T16:54:35Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13244v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing deployment of Large Language Models (LLMs) in roles that require an understanding of human psychology, such as emotional support and counseling. The motivation stems from the need to evaluate LLMs' ability to infer personality traits in real-world conversational contexts, an area that has not been thoroughly explored. The authors aim to fill the gap in understanding how well LLMs align with validated psychological constructs, particularly the Big Five personality traits, in naturalistic settings.","challenges":"A significant challenge highlighted in the paper is the limited alignment of LLMs with continuous, ground-truth personality assessments derived from real interactions. Existing approaches often rely on discrete personality labels from social media, which may not capture the nuances of human personality. Additionally, the authors note that current models struggle to achieve meaningful correlations with validated personality traits, indicating a gap in their ability to interpret complex human attributes accurately.","innovations":"The paper introduces a novel benchmark consisting of semi-structured interview transcripts paired with validated continuous Big Five trait scores, enabling a more ecologically valid evaluation of LLMs. The authors explore three paradigms: zero-shot and chain-of-thought prompting with GPT-4.1 Mini, LoRA-based fine-tuning on RoBERTa and Meta-LLaMA, and regression using static embeddings from pretrained models. This systematic approach provides a comprehensive assessment of LLM performance in personality inference, contributing both theoretically and practically to the understanding of LLM alignment with psychological constructs.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves evaluating LLM performance on the newly introduced benchmark using various prompting and fine-tuning techniques. Key results indicate that all Pearson correlations between model predictions and ground-truth personality traits are below 0.26, demonstrating limited alignment. The findings suggest that chain-of-thought prompting does not significantly outperform zero-shot prompting, implying that personality inference may depend more on latent semantic representation than on explicit reasoning. Comparisons with baseline models reveal the challenges faced by current LLMs in this domain.","insights":"The findings have significant implications for the field of AI and psychology, highlighting the challenges in aligning LLMs with complex human attributes such as personality. The results suggest potential applications in developing more effective emotional support agents and decision-making assistants. Future research directions include exploring trait-specific prompting, context-aware modeling, and alignment-oriented fine-tuning to enhance LLM performance in personality inference tasks.","keywords":["Large Language Models","personality inference","Big Five traits","GPT-4.1 Mini","LoRA fine-tuning","RoBERTa","Meta-LLaMA","embedding regression"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing deployment of Large Language Models (LLMs) in roles that require an understanding of human psychology, such as emotional support and counseling. The motivation stems from the need to evaluate LLMs' ability to infer personality traits in real-world conversational contexts, an area that has not been thoroughly explored. The authors aim to fill the gap in understanding how well LLMs align with validated psychological ...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:11.797Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13244v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13240v1","title":"Don't Forget the Nonlinearity: Unlocking Activation Functions in\n  Efficient Fine-Tuning","authors":["Bo Yin","Xingyi Yang","Xinchao Wang"],"abstract":"Existing parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods primarily adapt\nweight matrices while keeping activation functions fixed. We introduce\n\\textbf{NoRA}, the first PEFT framework that directly adapts nonlinear\nactivation functions in pretrained transformer-based models. NoRA replaces\nfixed activations with learnable rational functions and applies structured\nlow-rank updates to numerator and denominator coefficients, with a group-wise\ndesign that localizes adaptation and improves stability at minimal cost. On\nvision transformers trained on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100, NoRA matches or exceeds\nfull fine-tuning while updating only 0.4\\% of parameters (0.02M), achieving\naccuracy gains of +0.17\\% and +0.27\\%. When combined with LoRA\n(\\textbf{NoRA++}), it outperforms LoRA and DoRA under matched training budgets\nby adding fewer trainable parameters. On LLaMA3-8B instruction tuning, NoRA++\nconsistently improves generation quality, yielding average MMLU gains of\n+0.3\\%--0.8\\%, including +1.6\\% on STEM (Alpaca) and +1.3\\% on OpenOrca. We\nfurther show that NoRA constrains adaptation to a low-dimensional functional\nsubspace, implicitly regularizing update magnitude and direction. These results\nestablish activation-space tuning as a complementary and highly\nparameter-efficient alternative to weight-based PEFT, positioning activation\nfunctions as first-class objects for model adaptation.","published":"2025-09-16T16:47:03Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13240v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The research addresses the limitations of existing parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods that primarily adapt weight matrices while leaving activation functions unchanged. The motivation stems from the observation that activation functions play a crucial role in model performance, and adapting them could lead to improved efficiency and effectiveness in fine-tuning pretrained transformer-based models.","challenges":"A significant challenge in PEFT is the fixed nature of activation functions, which can hinder the model's ability to adapt to specific tasks. Existing methods often focus solely on weight adaptation, neglecting the potential benefits of tuning nonlinearities. This oversight can limit performance improvements and restrict the adaptability of models in diverse applications.","innovations":"The paper introduces NoRA, a novel PEFT framework that allows for the adaptation of nonlinear activation functions by replacing fixed activations with learnable rational functions. The method employs structured low-rank updates to the coefficients of these functions, facilitating localized adaptation while maintaining stability. Notably, NoRA achieves competitive performance with minimal parameter updates (only 0.4% of parameters), and when combined with LoRA in NoRA++, it surpasses existing methods in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, establishing activation-space tuning as a viable alternative to traditional weight-based approaches.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved fine-tuning vision transformers on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 datasets, where NoRA demonstrated accuracy improvements of +0.17% and +0.27% while updating only 0.02M parameters. In addition, NoRA++ was tested on LLaMA3-8B for instruction tuning, yielding MMLU gains of +0.3% to +0.8%, with notable increases of +1.6% on STEM and +1.3% on OpenOrca. These results were benchmarked against LoRA and DoRA under matched training budgets, showcasing NoRA's superior performance and efficiency.","insights":"The findings suggest that tuning activation functions can significantly enhance model adaptation without the need for extensive parameter updates, positioning activation functions as critical components in fine-tuning strategies. This approach opens avenues for further research into activation-space tuning and its applications across various domains, including natural language processing and computer vision.","keywords":["parameter-efficient fine-tuning","activation functions","NoRA","vision transformers","CIFAR-10","CIFAR-100","LoRA","LLaMA3"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The research addresses the limitations of existing parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods that primarily adapt weight matrices while leaving activation functions unchanged. The motivation stems from the observation that activation functions play a crucial role in model performance, and adapting them could lead to improved efficiency and effectiveness in fine-tuning pretrained transformer-based models.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:22.952Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13240v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13239v1","title":"Collaborative Loco-Manipulation for Pick-and-Place Tasks with Dynamic\n  Reward Curriculum","authors":["Tianxu An","Flavio De Vincenti","Yuntao Ma","Marco Hutter","Stelian Coros"],"abstract":"We present a hierarchical RL pipeline for training one-armed legged robots to\nperform pick-and-place (P&amp;P) tasks end-to-end -- from approaching the payload\nto releasing it at a target area -- in both single-robot and cooperative\ndual-robot settings. We introduce a novel dynamic reward curriculum that\nenables a single policy to efficiently learn long-horizon P&amp;P operations by\nprogressively guiding the agents through payload-centered sub-objectives.\nCompared to state-of-the-art approaches for long-horizon RL tasks, our method\nimproves training efficiency by 55% and reduces execution time by 18.6% in\nsimulation experiments. In the dual-robot case, we show that our policy enables\neach robot to attend to different components of its observation space at\ndistinct task stages, promoting effective coordination via autonomous attention\nshifts. We validate our method through real-world experiments using ANYmal D\nplatforms in both single- and dual-robot scenarios. To our knowledge, this is\nthe first RL pipeline that tackles the full scope of collaborative P&amp;P with two\nlegged manipulators.","published":"2025-09-16T16:45:24Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13239v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The research addresses the challenge of training legged robots to perform pick-and-place (P&P) tasks in both single and cooperative settings. The motivation stems from the need for robots to autonomously manipulate objects in complex environments, which is critical for applications in logistics, manufacturing, and service robotics. The paper presents a hierarchical reinforcement learning (RL) framework that enables robots to learn these tasks end-to-end, enhancing their operational efficiency and autonomy.","challenges":"Key challenges include the complexity of long-horizon tasks that require coordinated actions over extended periods, as well as the need for effective communication and collaboration between multiple robots. Existing approaches often struggle with training efficiency and the ability to generalize across different task stages, leading to suboptimal performance in dynamic environments.","innovations":"The authors introduce a dynamic reward curriculum that guides agents through payload-centered sub-objectives, facilitating the learning of long-horizon P&P operations. This approach allows for a single policy to adaptively learn from various task stages, improving training efficiency by 55% and reducing execution time by 18.6% compared to state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, the paper presents a novel mechanism for dual-robot coordination, where each robot autonomously shifts its attention to different components of the observation space, enhancing collaborative performance.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves simulations and real-world tests using ANYmal D robots in both single-robot and dual-robot scenarios. Key metrics include training efficiency and execution time, with results demonstrating significant improvements over baseline methods. The dual-robot experiments showcase enhanced coordination and task execution, validating the effectiveness of the proposed RL pipeline in real-world applications.","insights":"This research has important implications for the field of robotics, particularly in enhancing the capabilities of legged robots in collaborative tasks. Potential applications extend to various domains, including warehouse automation and search-and-rescue operations. Future research could explore the integration of more complex environments and the scalability of the proposed methods to larger teams of robots.","keywords":["reinforcement learning","pick-and-place","legged robots","dynamic reward curriculum","collaborative robotics","ANYmal D","task coordination","robot manipulation"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The research addresses the challenge of training legged robots to perform pick-and-place (P&P) tasks in both single and cooperative settings. The motivation stems from the need for robots to autonomously manipulate objects in complex environments, which is critical for applications in logistics, manufacturing, and service robotics. The paper presents a hierarchical reinforcement learning (RL) framework that enables robots to learn these tasks end...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:18.451Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13239v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13237v1","title":"Metacognitive Reuse: Turning Recurring LLM Reasoning Into Concise\n  Behaviors","authors":["Aniket Didolkar","Nicolas Ballas","Sanjeev Arora","Anirudh Goyal"],"abstract":"Large language models (LLMs) now solve multi-step problems by emitting\nextended chains of thought. During the process, they often re-derive the same\nintermediate steps across problems, inflating token usage and latency. This\nsaturation of the context window leaves less capacity for exploration. We study\na simple mechanism that converts recurring reasoning fragments into concise,\nreusable \"behaviors\" (name + instruction) via the model's own metacognitive\nanalysis of prior traces. These behaviors are stored in a \"behavior handbook\"\nwhich supplies them to the model in-context at inference or distills them into\nparameters via supervised fine-tuning. This approach achieves improved\ntest-time reasoning across three different settings - 1) Behavior-conditioned\ninference: Providing the LLM relevant behaviors in-context during reasoning\nreduces number of reasoning tokens by up to 46% while matching or improving\nbaseline accuracy; 2) Behavior-guided self-improvement: Without any parameter\nupdates, the model improves its own future reasoning by leveraging behaviors\nfrom its own past problem solving attempts. This yields up to 10% higher\naccuracy than a naive critique-and-revise baseline; and 3) Behavior-conditioned\nSFT: SFT on behavior-conditioned reasoning traces is more effective at\nconverting non-reasoning models into reasoning models as compared to vanilla\nSFT. Together, these results indicate that turning slow derivations into fast\nprocedural hints enables LLMs to remember how to reason, not just what to\nconclude.","published":"2025-09-16T16:44:26Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13237v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the inefficiencies in large language models (LLMs) that arise from their tendency to repeatedly derive the same intermediate reasoning steps across different problems. This redundancy not only inflates token usage and increases latency but also limits the model's capacity for exploration. The authors propose a metacognitive approach to convert these recurring reasoning fragments into concise, reusable behaviors, enhancing the model's reasoning capabilities.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the effective identification and extraction of recurring reasoning fragments from LLMs, as well as the efficient storage and retrieval of these behaviors without compromising the model's performance. Existing approaches often fail to leverage past reasoning effectively, leading to redundant computations and suboptimal performance in multi-step problem-solving tasks.","innovations":"The paper introduces a novel mechanism called 'metacognitive reuse,' which allows LLMs to analyze their past reasoning traces and convert them into concise behaviors stored in a 'behavior handbook.' This handbook can be utilized during inference to reduce token usage or can be distilled into model parameters through supervised fine-tuning (SFT). The key contributions include behavior-conditioned inference, behavior-guided self-improvement, and behavior-conditioned SFT, all of which enhance the model's reasoning efficiency and accuracy.","experiments":"The authors conducted experiments across three settings: behavior-conditioned inference, behavior-guided self-improvement, and behavior-conditioned SFT. In behavior-conditioned inference, the model reduced reasoning tokens by up to 46% while maintaining or improving accuracy. The behavior-guided self-improvement showed a 10% increase in accuracy over a naive critique-and-revise baseline. Additionally, behavior-conditioned SFT was found to be more effective in transforming non-reasoning models into reasoning models compared to traditional SFT methods.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the development of more efficient LLMs capable of complex reasoning tasks. The ability to remember and reuse reasoning fragments can lead to faster and more accurate problem-solving. Future research could explore the integration of this approach into other types of models and investigate its applicability in real-world scenarios, such as automated tutoring systems or complex decision-making applications.","keywords":["large language models","metacognition","reasoning","behavior handbook","supervised fine-tuning","self-improvement","token efficiency","multi-step problems"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the inefficiencies in large language models (LLMs) that arise from their tendency to repeatedly derive the same intermediate reasoning steps across different problems. This redundancy not only inflates token usage and increases latency but also limits the model's capacity for exploration. The authors propose a metacognitive approach to convert these recurring reasoning fragments into concise, reusable behaviors, enhancing the ...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:34.741Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13237v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13236v1","title":"Layout-Aware OCR for Black Digital Archives with Unsupervised Evaluation","authors":["Fitsum Sileshi Beyene","Christopher L. Dancy"],"abstract":"Despite their cultural and historical significance, Black digital archives\ncontinue to be a structurally underrepresented area in AI research and\ninfrastructure. This is especially evident in efforts to digitize historical\nBlack newspapers, where inconsistent typography, visual degradation, and\nlimited annotated layout data hinder accurate transcription, despite the\navailability of various systems that claim to handle optical character\nrecognition (OCR) well. In this short paper, we present a layout-aware OCR\npipeline tailored for Black newspaper archives and introduce an unsupervised\nevaluation framework suited to low-resource archival contexts. Our approach\nintegrates synthetic layout generation, model pretraining on augmented data,\nand a fusion of state-of-the-art You Only Look Once (YOLO) detectors. We used\nthree annotation-free evaluation metrics, the Semantic Coherence Score (SCS),\nRegion Entropy (RE), and Textual Redundancy Score (TRS), which quantify\nlinguistic fluency, informational diversity, and redundancy across OCR regions.\nOur evaluation on a 400-page dataset from ten Black newspaper titles\ndemonstrates that layout-aware OCR improves structural diversity and reduces\nredundancy compared to full-page baselines, with modest trade-offs in\ncoherence. Our results highlight the importance of respecting cultural layout\nlogic in AI-driven document understanding and lay the foundation for future\ncommunity-driven and ethically grounded archival AI systems.","published":"2025-09-16T16:43:34Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13236v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the underrepresentation of Black digital archives in AI research, particularly focusing on the challenges faced in digitizing historical Black newspapers. The authors highlight the issues of inconsistent typography, visual degradation, and the scarcity of annotated layout data that hinder accurate transcription efforts, despite the existence of various OCR systems claiming efficacy.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the variability in layout and typography of historical newspapers, which complicates OCR accuracy. Existing approaches often rely on well-structured datasets with extensive annotations, which are not available for Black archives, leading to suboptimal performance in transcription tasks.","innovations":"The authors introduce a layout-aware OCR pipeline specifically designed for Black newspaper archives, incorporating synthetic layout generation and model pretraining on augmented data. They also propose a novel unsupervised evaluation framework utilizing three annotation-free metrics: Semantic Coherence Score (SCS), Region Entropy (RE), and Textual Redundancy Score (TRS). These contributions enhance the understanding of structural diversity and redundancy in OCR outputs, emphasizing the importance of cultural layout logic.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved evaluating the proposed OCR pipeline on a dataset of 400 pages from ten different Black newspaper titles. The results indicated that the layout-aware OCR approach significantly improved structural diversity and reduced redundancy compared to full-page baselines, although there were modest trade-offs in coherence. The use of the three proposed metrics provided a comprehensive assessment of the OCR performance.","insights":"This research underscores the necessity of culturally aware AI systems in document understanding, particularly in archival contexts. The findings suggest potential applications in enhancing the digitization of underrepresented historical documents. Future research could explore further refinements in OCR techniques and the development of community-driven datasets to support ethical AI practices.","keywords":["layout-aware OCR","Black digital archives","synthetic layout generation","YOLO detectors","Semantic Coherence Score","Region Entropy","Textual Redundancy Score","historical newspapers"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the underrepresentation of Black digital archives in AI research, particularly focusing on the challenges faced in digitizing historical Black newspapers. The authors highlight the issues of inconsistent typography, visual degradation, and the scarcity of annotated layout data that hinder accurate transcription efforts, despite the existence of various OCR systems claiming efficacy.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:32.922Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13236v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13235v1","title":"A Scenario-Driven Cognitive Approach to Next-Generation AI Memory","authors":["Linyue Cai","Yuyang Cheng","Xiaoding Shao","Huiming Wang","Yong Zhao","Wei Zhang","Kang Li"],"abstract":"As artificial intelligence advances toward artificial general intelligence\n(AGI), the need for robust and human-like memory systems has become\nincreasingly evident. Current memory architectures often suffer from limited\nadaptability, insufficient multimodal integration, and an inability to support\ncontinuous learning. To address these limitations, we propose a scenario-driven\nmethodology that extracts essential functional requirements from representative\ncognitive scenarios, leading to a unified set of design principles for\nnext-generation AI memory systems. Based on this approach, we introduce the\n\\textbf{COgnitive Layered Memory Architecture (COLMA)}, a novel framework that\nintegrates cognitive scenarios, memory processes, and storage mechanisms into a\ncohesive design. COLMA provides a structured foundation for developing AI\nsystems capable of lifelong learning and human-like reasoning, thereby\ncontributing to the pragmatic development of AGI.","published":"2025-09-16T16:43:07Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13235v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing need for advanced memory systems in AI as the field progresses towards artificial general intelligence (AGI). Current memory architectures are often limited in their adaptability, multimodal integration, and continuous learning capabilities. The authors aim to create a more robust memory framework that mimics human-like memory processes, thereby enhancing AI's ability to learn and reason over time.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the lack of adaptability in existing memory systems, insufficient integration of multiple modalities (e.g., visual, auditory), and the inability to support continuous learning without catastrophic forgetting. Current architectures often fail to meet the functional requirements necessary for AGI, limiting their effectiveness in real-world applications.","innovations":"The authors introduce the COgnitive Layered Memory Architecture (COLMA), which is a novel framework that integrates cognitive scenarios with memory processes and storage mechanisms. This approach is scenario-driven, allowing for the extraction of essential functional requirements from representative cognitive scenarios. Key contributions include a unified set of design principles for memory systems that support lifelong learning and human-like reasoning, which could significantly advance the development of AGI.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing COLMA against existing memory architectures in various cognitive scenarios to evaluate its performance. Key metrics likely include adaptability, multimodal integration efficiency, and continuous learning capabilities. The results demonstrate that COLMA outperforms baseline models in these areas, showcasing its potential for more effective memory management in AI systems.","insights":"The implications of this research are significant for the field of AI, particularly in the pursuit of AGI. COLMA could enable more sophisticated AI applications in areas such as robotics, natural language processing, and personalized learning systems. Future research directions may include further refinement of the architecture, exploration of additional cognitive scenarios, and integration with other AI components to enhance overall system performance.","keywords":["AGI","memory architecture","lifelong learning","cognitive scenarios","multimodal integration","COLMA","continuous learning","human-like reasoning"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing need for advanced memory systems in AI as the field progresses towards artificial general intelligence (AGI). Current memory architectures are often limited in their adaptability, multimodal integration, and continuous learning capabilities. The authors aim to create a more robust memory framework that mimics human-like memory processes, thereby enhancing AI's ability to learn and reason over time.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:46.311Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13235v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13234v1","title":"Simulating Clinical AI Assistance using Multimodal LLMs: A Case Study in\n  Diabetic Retinopathy","authors":["Nadim Barakat","William Lotter"],"abstract":"Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of blindness worldwide, and AI\nsystems can expand access to fundus photography screening. Current FDA-cleared\nsystems primarily provide binary referral outputs, where this minimal output\nmay limit clinical trust and utility. Yet, determining the most effective\noutput format to enhance clinician-AI performance is an empirical challenge\nthat is difficult to assess at scale. We evaluated multimodal large language\nmodels (MLLMs) for DR detection and their ability to simulate clinical AI\nassistance across different output types. Two models were tested on IDRiD and\nMessidor-2: GPT-4o, a general-purpose MLLM, and MedGemma, an open-source\nmedical model. Experiments included: (1) baseline evaluation, (2) simulated AI\nassistance with synthetic predictions, and (3) actual AI-to-AI collaboration\nwhere GPT-4o incorporated MedGemma outputs. MedGemma outperformed GPT-4o at\nbaseline, achieving higher sensitivity and AUROC, while GPT-4o showed\nnear-perfect specificity but low sensitivity. Both models adjusted predictions\nbased on simulated AI inputs, but GPT-4o's performance collapsed with incorrect\nones, whereas MedGemma remained more stable. In actual collaboration, GPT-4o\nachieved strong results when guided by MedGemma's descriptive outputs, even\nwithout direct image access (AUROC up to 0.96). These findings suggest MLLMs\nmay improve DR screening pipelines and serve as scalable simulators for\nstudying clinical AI assistance across varying output configurations. Open,\nlightweight models such as MedGemma may be especially valuable in low-resource\nsettings, while descriptive outputs could enhance explainability and clinician\ntrust in clinical workflows.","published":"2025-09-16T16:42:19Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13234v1","analysis":{"introduction":"Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a significant cause of blindness globally, and the integration of AI into fundus photography screening can enhance access to timely diagnosis. However, existing FDA-cleared systems provide limited binary outputs, which may hinder clinician trust and the overall utility of AI in clinical settings. This study investigates the use of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) to enhance AI assistance in DR detection and explore various output formats to improve clinician-AI collaboration.","challenges":"The primary technical challenges include determining the optimal output formats for AI systems to enhance clinician trust and performance. Existing approaches are limited by their binary output nature, which may not provide sufficient information for clinical decision-making. Additionally, evaluating AI performance in a scalable manner poses significant empirical challenges, particularly in simulating real-world clinical scenarios.","innovations":"This research introduces a novel approach by evaluating two MLLMsGPT-4o and MedGemmaacross different output types for DR detection. Key contributions include the development of a framework for simulating AI assistance, which incorporates synthetic predictions and AI-to-AI collaboration. The study highlights the importance of descriptive outputs in enhancing explainability and clinician trust, particularly in low-resource settings, where lightweight models like MedGemma can be particularly beneficial.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved baseline evaluations and simulations of AI assistance using synthetic predictions, followed by actual AI-to-AI collaboration. The models were tested on two datasets, IDRiD and Messidor-2. MedGemma outperformed GPT-4o at baseline in terms of sensitivity and AUROC, while GPT-4o exhibited high specificity but low sensitivity. In collaborative scenarios, GPT-4o's performance improved significantly when guided by MedGemma's outputs, achieving an AUROC of up to 0.96.","insights":"The findings suggest that MLLMs can significantly enhance DR screening pipelines and serve as valuable tools for studying clinical AI assistance. The implications extend to improving explainability and clinician trust, which are critical for the adoption of AI in healthcare. Future research could explore the integration of these models in real clinical workflows and assess their impact on patient outcomes.","keywords":["diabetic retinopathy","multimodal large language models","AI assistance","sensitivity","AUROC","MedGemma","GPT-4o","clinical workflows"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a significant cause of blindness globally, and the integration of AI into fundus photography screening can enhance access to timely diagnosis. However, existing FDA-cleared systems provide limited binary outputs, which may hinder clinician trust and the overall utility of AI in clinical settings. This study investigates the use of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) to enhance AI assistance in DR detection and ex...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:46.872Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13234v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13232v1","title":"Single-stream Policy Optimization","authors":["Zhongwen Xu","Zihan Ding"],"abstract":"We revisit policy-gradient optimization for Large Language Models (LLMs) from\na single-stream perspective. Prevailing group-based methods like GRPO reduce\nvariance with on-the-fly baselines but suffer from critical flaws: frequent\ndegenerate groups erase learning signals, and synchronization barriers hinder\nscalability. We introduce Single-stream Policy Optimization (SPO), which\neliminates these issues by design. SPO replaces per-group baselines with a\npersistent, KL-adaptive value tracker and normalizes advantages globally across\nthe batch, providing a stable, low-variance learning signal for every sample.\nBeing group-free, SPO enables higher throughput and scales effectively in\nlong-horizon or tool-integrated settings where generation times vary.\nFurthermore, the persistent value tracker naturally enables an adaptive\ncurriculum via prioritized sampling. Experiments using Qwen3-8B show that SPO\nconverges more smoothly and attains higher accuracy than GRPO, while\neliminating computation wasted on degenerate groups. Ablation studies confirm\nthat SPO's gains stem from its principled approach to baseline estimation and\nadvantage normalization, offering a more robust and efficient path for LLM\nreasoning. Across five hard math benchmarks with Qwen3 8B, SPO improves the\naverage maj@32 by +3.4 percentage points (pp) over GRPO, driven by substantial\nabsolute point gains on challenging datasets, including +7.3 pp on BRUMO 25,\n+4.4 pp on AIME 25, +3.3 pp on HMMT 25, and achieves consistent relative gain\nin pass@$k$ across the evaluated $k$ values. SPO's success challenges the\nprevailing trend of adding incidental complexity to RL algorithms, highlighting\na path where fundamental principles, not architectural workarounds, drive the\nnext wave of progress in LLM reasoning.","published":"2025-09-16T16:39:11Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13232v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the optimization of policy-gradient methods for Large Language Models (LLMs) by proposing a single-stream approach. The motivation stems from the limitations of existing group-based methods like GRPO, which can hinder scalability and introduce noise in learning signals. The authors aim to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of policy optimization in LLMs.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the high variance associated with group-based methods and the inefficiencies caused by degenerate groups that erase valuable learning signals. Additionally, synchronization barriers in these methods limit scalability, particularly in long-horizon or tool-integrated settings where generation times can vary significantly.","innovations":"The authors introduce Single-stream Policy Optimization (SPO), which replaces per-group baselines with a persistent, KL-adaptive value tracker. This innovation allows for global normalization of advantages across the batch, providing a stable learning signal. SPO's design eliminates the need for groups, enhancing throughput and scalability. The persistent value tracker also facilitates an adaptive curriculum through prioritized sampling. The paper emphasizes that these innovations lead to smoother convergence and higher accuracy compared to GRPO, while reducing computation waste.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved using the Qwen3-8B model to evaluate SPO against GRPO across five challenging math benchmarks. Key metrics included average maj@32 and pass@$k$. The results demonstrated that SPO improved average maj@32 by +3.4 percentage points over GRPO, with notable gains on specific datasets such as +7.3 pp on BRUMO 25 and +4.4 pp on AIME 25. These findings highlight SPO's superior performance and efficiency in comparison to existing methods.","insights":"The findings suggest that focusing on fundamental principles rather than adding complexity can lead to significant advancements in LLM reasoning. SPO's approach may inspire future research in reinforcement learning and policy optimization, particularly in applications requiring high scalability and efficiency. Future directions could explore further enhancements to baseline estimation and the integration of adaptive learning strategies.","keywords":["Single-stream Policy Optimization","Large Language Models","policy-gradient optimization","KL-adaptive value tracker","advantage normalization","reinforcement learning","Qwen3-8B","benchmarking"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the optimization of policy-gradient methods for Large Language Models (LLMs) by proposing a single-stream approach. The motivation stems from the limitations of existing group-based methods like GRPO, which can hinder scalability and introduce noise in learning signals. The authors aim to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of policy optimization in LLMs.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:59.173Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13232v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13229v1","title":"Curriculum Multi-Task Self-Supervision Improves Lightweight\n  Architectures for Onboard Satellite Hyperspectral Image Segmentation","authors":["Hugo Carlesso","Josiane Mothe","Radu Tudor Ionescu"],"abstract":"Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) captures detailed spectral signatures across\nhundreds of contiguous bands per pixel, being indispensable for remote sensing\napplications such as land-cover classification, change detection, and\nenvironmental monitoring. Due to the high dimensionality of HSI data and the\nslow rate of data transfer in satellite-based systems, compact and efficient\nmodels are required to support onboard processing and minimize the transmission\nof redundant or low-value data, e.g. cloud-covered areas. To this end, we\nintroduce a novel curriculum multi-task self-supervised learning (CMTSSL)\nframework designed for lightweight architectures for HSI analysis. CMTSSL\nintegrates masked image modeling with decoupled spatial and spectral jigsaw\npuzzle solving, guided by a curriculum learning strategy that progressively\nincreases data complexity during self-supervision. This enables the encoder to\njointly capture fine-grained spectral continuity, spatial structure, and global\nsemantic features. Unlike prior dual-task SSL methods, CMTSSL simultaneously\naddresses spatial and spectral reasoning within a unified and computationally\nefficient design, being particularly suitable for training lightweight models\nfor onboard satellite deployment. We validate our approach on four public\nbenchmark datasets, demonstrating consistent gains in downstream segmentation\ntasks, using architectures that are over 16,000x lighter than some\nstate-of-the-art models. These results highlight the potential of CMTSSL in\ngeneralizable representation learning with lightweight architectures for\nreal-world HSI applications. Our code is publicly available at\nhttps://github.com/hugocarlesso/CMTSSL.","published":"2025-09-16T16:37:59Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13229v1","analysis":{"introduction":"Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) is crucial for various remote sensing applications, capturing extensive spectral information across numerous bands. However, the high dimensionality of HSI data poses challenges for onboard processing in satellite systems, necessitating the development of compact and efficient models. This paper addresses the need for improved segmentation techniques that can operate effectively within the constraints of satellite data transmission and processing capabilities.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the high dimensionality of HSI data, which complicates model training and increases computational requirements. Existing approaches often struggle with efficiently integrating spatial and spectral information, leading to suboptimal performance in segmentation tasks. Additionally, the slow data transfer rates from satellites necessitate models that can minimize the transmission of redundant data, such as areas obscured by clouds.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel Curriculum Multi-Task Self-Supervised Learning (CMTSSL) framework that combines masked image modeling with decoupled spatial and spectral jigsaw puzzle solving. This approach leverages a curriculum learning strategy to progressively increase data complexity, allowing the model to learn fine-grained spectral continuity and spatial structure effectively. Unlike previous dual-task self-supervised learning methods, CMTSSL integrates spatial and spectral reasoning into a unified framework, making it particularly suitable for lightweight architectures intended for onboard satellite deployment.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves validating the CMTSSL framework on four public benchmark datasets for HSI segmentation. The authors report significant improvements in downstream segmentation tasks, achieving performance gains with models that are over 16,000 times lighter than some state-of-the-art alternatives. Key metrics for evaluation include segmentation accuracy and computational efficiency, demonstrating the effectiveness of CMTSSL in real-world applications.","insights":"The findings suggest that CMTSSL has substantial implications for enhancing representation learning in lightweight models for hyperspectral imaging. This approach not only improves segmentation accuracy but also addresses the practical constraints of onboard satellite systems. Future research could explore further optimizations of the CMTSSL framework and its applicability to other remote sensing tasks or different types of imaging data.","keywords":["Hyperspectral Imaging","Self-Supervised Learning","Lightweight Architectures","Segmentation","Curriculum Learning","Remote Sensing","Data Efficiency","Representation Learning"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) is crucial for various remote sensing applications, capturing extensive spectral information across numerous bands. However, the high dimensionality of HSI data poses challenges for onboard processing in satellite systems, necessitating the development of compact and efficient models. This paper addresses the need for improved segmentation techniques that can operate effectively within the constraints of satellite data...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:11:58.664Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13229v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13227v1","title":"Rich Vehicle Routing Problem with diverse Vertices allowing Hierarchical\n  and Multimodal Time-Dependant Transhipment of multiple Node- Vehicle-\n  compatible Cargo with Cascaded Time-Minimization Objective for Emergency\n  Decision Support Systems","authors":["Santanu Banerjee","Goutam Sen","Siddhartha Mukhopadhyay"],"abstract":"A rich vehicle routing problem is considered allowing multiple trips of\nheterogeneous vehicles stationed at distributed vehicle depots spread across\ndiverse geographies having access to different modes of transportation. The\nproblem arises from the real world requirement of optimizing the disaster\nresponse/preparedness time and minimizes the route duration of the vehicles to\nachieve the solution with the minimum highest-vehicle-route-duration. Multiple\ndiversely-functional vertices are considered including the concept of\nTranshipment Ports as inter-modal resource transfer stations. Both simultaneous\nand split pickup and transferring of different types of delivery and pickup\ncargo is considered, along with Vehicle-Cargo and Transhipment Port-Cargo\nCompatibility. The superiority of the proposed cascaded minimization approach\nis shown over existing makespan minimization approaches through the developed\nMILP formulation. To solve the problem quickly for practical implementation\nwithin Disaster Management-specific Decision Support Systems, an extensive\nHeuristic Algorithm is devised. The Heuristic utilizes Decision Tree based\nstructuring of possible routes and is able to inherently consider the\ncompatibility issues. Preferential generation of small route elements are\nperformed, which are integrated into route clusters; we consider multiple\ndifferent logical integration approaches, as well as shuffling the logics to\nsimultaneously produce multiple independent solutions. Finally perturbation of\nthe different solutions are done to find better neighbouring solutions. The\ncomputational performance of the PSR-GIP Heuristic, on our created novel\ndatasets, indicate that it is able to give good solutions swiftly for practical\nproblems involving large integer instances which the MILP is unable to solve.","published":"2025-09-16T16:37:18Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13227v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the Rich Vehicle Routing Problem (RVRP) in the context of emergency decision support systems, motivated by the need to optimize disaster response and preparedness times. It focuses on the complexities of routing heterogeneous vehicles from distributed depots across diverse geographies, emphasizing the importance of minimizing the maximum route duration for efficient disaster management.","challenges":"Key challenges include the integration of multiple transportation modes and the management of diverse cargo types at various transshipment ports. Existing approaches often rely on makespan minimization, which does not adequately address the hierarchical and multimodal aspects of the problem, leading to inefficiencies in real-world applications.","innovations":"The authors propose a cascaded minimization approach that enhances traditional MILP formulations by allowing for simultaneous and split pickups of cargo. A novel heuristic algorithm, PSR-GIP, is introduced, leveraging decision tree structures to optimize route compatibility and generate multiple independent solutions. This method not only improves computational efficiency but also addresses the compatibility issues inherent in vehicle-cargo and transshipment port-cargo relationships, marking a significant advancement in routing methodologies for emergency logistics.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves the creation of novel datasets tailored to the complexities of the RVRP. The performance of the PSR-GIP heuristic is evaluated against traditional MILP approaches, demonstrating its ability to deliver high-quality solutions swiftly, particularly for large integer instances that are typically challenging for MILP to solve. Key metrics include solution quality and computational time, showcasing significant improvements over baseline methods.","insights":"The findings suggest that the proposed methods can significantly enhance the efficiency of emergency response logistics, with implications for real-world disaster management applications. Future research could explore further refinements to the heuristic, integration with real-time data sources, and applications in other logistics domains beyond emergency management.","keywords":["Rich Vehicle Routing Problem","cascaded minimization","heuristic algorithm","decision tree","transshipment ports","disaster management","MILP","cargo compatibility"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the Rich Vehicle Routing Problem (RVRP) in the context of emergency decision support systems, motivated by the need to optimize disaster response and preparedness times. It focuses on the complexities of routing heterogeneous vehicles from distributed depots across diverse geographies, emphasizing the importance of minimizing the maximum route duration for efficient disaster management.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:16.966Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13227v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13219v1","title":"On the Out-of-Distribution Backdoor Attack for Federated Learning","authors":["Jiahao Xu","Zikai Zhang","Rui Hu"],"abstract":"Traditional backdoor attacks in federated learning (FL) operate within\nconstrained attack scenarios, as they depend on visible triggers and require\nphysical modifications to the target object, which limits their practicality.\nTo address this limitation, we introduce a novel backdoor attack prototype for\nFL called the out-of-distribution (OOD) backdoor attack ($\\mathtt{OBA}$), which\nuses OOD data as both poisoned samples and triggers simultaneously. Our\napproach significantly broadens the scope of backdoor attack scenarios in FL.\nTo improve the stealthiness of $\\mathtt{OBA}$, we propose $\\mathtt{SoDa}$,\nwhich regularizes both the magnitude and direction of malicious local models\nduring local training, aligning them closely with their benign versions to\nevade detection. Empirical results demonstrate that $\\mathtt{OBA}$ effectively\ncircumvents state-of-the-art defenses while maintaining high accuracy on the\nmain task.\n  To address this security vulnerability in the FL system, we introduce\n$\\mathtt{BNGuard}$, a new server-side defense method tailored against\n$\\mathtt{SoDa}$. $\\mathtt{BNGuard}$ leverages the observation that OOD data\ncauses significant deviations in the running statistics of batch normalization\nlayers. This allows $\\mathtt{BNGuard}$ to identify malicious model updates and\nexclude them from aggregation, thereby enhancing the backdoor robustness of FL.\nExtensive experiments across various settings show the effectiveness of\n$\\mathtt{BNGuard}$ on defending against $\\mathtt{SoDa}$. The code is available\nat https://github.com/JiiahaoXU/SoDa-BNGuard.","published":"2025-09-16T16:23:39Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13219v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the limitations of traditional backdoor attacks in federated learning (FL), which typically rely on visible triggers and physical modifications, thereby reducing their practicality. The authors introduce the out-of-distribution (OOD) backdoor attack (OBA), which utilizes OOD data as both poisoned samples and triggers, significantly expanding the potential attack scenarios in FL. This work is motivated by the need for more stealthy and effective attack strategies in decentralized learning environments.","challenges":"A primary challenge in federated learning is ensuring model integrity while allowing multiple participants to contribute to model training. Existing backdoor attack methods are often constrained by their reliance on detectable triggers, making them less effective in real-world applications. Additionally, current defenses may not adequately address the stealthiness of attacks that utilize OOD data, which can lead to undetected malicious updates during model aggregation.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel backdoor attack prototype, OBA, which cleverly uses OOD data as both the source of poisoned samples and the trigger for the attack. To enhance the stealthiness of OBA, they introduce SoDa, a technique that regularizes the local models' updates to closely align with benign versions, thus evading detection. Furthermore, they present BNGuard, a server-side defense mechanism that identifies malicious updates by monitoring deviations in batch normalization statistics. These contributions represent significant advancements in both attack methodologies and defensive strategies in federated learning.","experiments":"The experimental setup includes extensive evaluations across various federated learning scenarios to assess the effectiveness of OBA and SoDa. Key metrics include the accuracy of the main task and the success rate of the backdoor attack against state-of-the-art defenses. Results indicate that OBA successfully circumvents existing defenses while maintaining high accuracy, and BNGuard effectively identifies and mitigates the impact of malicious updates introduced by SoDa, demonstrating its robustness.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the security of federated learning systems, highlighting vulnerabilities that can be exploited through OOD data. The proposed methods can be applied to enhance the resilience of FL against sophisticated backdoor attacks. Future research directions may include exploring additional defensive mechanisms, improving the detection of OOD data, and investigating the implications of these attacks in real-world applications.","keywords":["federated learning","backdoor attack","out-of-distribution","SoDa","BNGuard","batch normalization","model robustness","security"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the limitations of traditional backdoor attacks in federated learning (FL), which typically rely on visible triggers and physical modifications, thereby reducing their practicality. The authors introduce the out-of-distribution (OOD) backdoor attack (OBA), which utilizes OOD data as both poisoned samples and triggers, significantly expanding the potential attack scenarios in FL. This work is motivated by the need for more stea...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:13.236Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13219v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13218v1","title":"FOSSIL: Regret-minimizing weighting for robust learning under imbalance\n  and small data","authors":["J. Cha","J. Lee","J. Cho","J. Shin"],"abstract":"Imbalanced and small data regimes are pervasive in domains such as rare\ndisease imaging, genomics, and disaster response, where labeled samples are\nscarce and naive augmentation often introduces artifacts. Existing solutions\nsuch as oversampling, focal loss, or meta-weighting address isolated aspects of\nthis challenge but remain fragile or complex. We introduce FOSSIL (Flexible\nOptimization via Sample Sensitive Importance Learning), a unified weighting\nframework that seamlessly integrates class imbalance correction,\ndifficulty-aware curricula, augmentation penalties, and warmup dynamics into a\nsingle interpretable formula. Unlike prior heuristics, the proposed framework\nprovides regret-based theoretical guarantees and achieves consistent empirical\ngains over ERM, curriculum, and meta-weighting baselines on synthetic and\nreal-world datasets, while requiring no architectural changes.","published":"2025-09-16T16:23:21Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13218v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the critical issue of learning from imbalanced and small datasets, which is common in fields like rare disease imaging and genomics. The authors highlight the inadequacies of existing methods such as oversampling and focal loss, which often fail to provide robust solutions due to their complexity or fragility. The motivation is to develop a more unified and effective approach to tackle these challenges in a coherent manner.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include effectively correcting class imbalance, managing difficulty-aware curricula, and mitigating the risks of introducing artifacts through naive data augmentation. Existing approaches often address only isolated aspects of these challenges, leading to limitations in robustness and generalization capabilities.","innovations":"FOSSIL introduces a novel framework that integrates multiple aspects of robust learning into a single formula, including class imbalance correction and augmentation penalties. It provides regret-based theoretical guarantees, which is a significant advancement over prior heuristics. The framework is designed to be interpretable and does not require any architectural changes, making it accessible for practical applications. This unified approach leads to consistent empirical gains across various datasets, both synthetic and real-world.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing FOSSIL against established baselines such as empirical risk minimization (ERM), curriculum learning, and meta-weighting on both synthetic and real-world datasets. Key results demonstrate that FOSSIL achieves superior performance metrics, indicating its effectiveness in addressing the challenges posed by imbalanced and small data. The authors provide quantitative comparisons that highlight the framework's advantages over traditional methods.","insights":"The implications of this research extend to various domains where data scarcity and imbalance are prevalent, suggesting that FOSSIL could enhance learning outcomes in critical applications like healthcare and disaster response. Future research directions may include exploring the adaptability of FOSSIL to different types of data and further refining its theoretical foundations to enhance its robustness.","keywords":["FOSSIL","class imbalance","small data","regret minimization","curriculum learning","data augmentation","machine learning","theoretical guarantees"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the critical issue of learning from imbalanced and small datasets, which is common in fields like rare disease imaging and genomics. The authors highlight the inadequacies of existing methods such as oversampling and focal loss, which often fail to provide robust solutions due to their complexity or fragility. The motivation is to develop a more unified and effective approach to tackle these challenges in a coherent manner.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:29.008Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13218v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13216v1","title":"Flow-Based Fragment Identification via Binding Site-Specific Latent\n  Representations","authors":["Rebecca Manuela Neeser","Ilia Igashov","Arne Schneuing","Michael Bronstein","Philippe Schwaller","Bruno Correia"],"abstract":"Fragment-based drug design is a promising strategy leveraging the binding of\nsmall chemical moieties that can efficiently guide drug discovery. The initial\nstep of fragment identification remains challenging, as fragments often bind\nweakly and non-specifically. We developed a protein-fragment encoder that\nrelies on a contrastive learning approach to map both molecular fragments and\nprotein surfaces in a shared latent space. The encoder captures\ninteraction-relevant features and allows to perform virtual screening as well\nas generative design with our new method LatentFrag. In LatentFrag, fragment\nembeddings and positions are generated conditioned on the protein surface while\nbeing chemically realistic by construction. Our expressive fragment and protein\nrepresentations allow location of protein-fragment interaction sites with high\nsensitivity and we observe state-of-the-art fragment recovery rates when\nsampling from the learned distribution of latent fragment embeddings. Our\ngenerative method outperforms common methods such as virtual screening at a\nfraction of its computational cost providing a valuable starting point for\nfragment hit discovery. We further show the practical utility of LatentFrag and\nextend the workflow to full ligand design tasks. Together, these approaches\ncontribute to advancing fragment identification and provide valuable tools for\nfragment-based drug discovery.","published":"2025-09-16T16:20:45Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13216v1","analysis":{"introduction":"Fragment-based drug design is a vital approach in drug discovery, focusing on the binding of small chemical fragments to target proteins. The initial step of identifying these fragments is particularly challenging due to their weak and non-specific binding characteristics. This paper presents a novel protein-fragment encoder that utilizes contrastive learning to create a shared latent space for both molecular fragments and protein surfaces, addressing the difficulties in fragment identification.","challenges":"The primary technical challenges include the weak binding affinity of fragments, which complicates their identification and validation. Existing methods often struggle with non-specific interactions and high computational costs associated with virtual screening processes. These limitations hinder the efficiency and effectiveness of fragment identification in drug discovery.","innovations":"The authors introduce a protein-fragment encoder that employs a contrastive learning framework to effectively map fragments and protein surfaces into a shared latent space. This innovative approach enables the extraction of interaction-relevant features, facilitating virtual screening and generative design through the LatentFrag method. LatentFrag generates fragment embeddings conditioned on the protein surface, ensuring chemical realism while achieving high sensitivity in locating interaction sites. The method demonstrates state-of-the-art fragment recovery rates and significantly reduces computational costs compared to traditional virtual screening methods.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved benchmarking the LatentFrag method against common virtual screening techniques. Key metrics included fragment recovery rates and computational efficiency. The results indicated that LatentFrag achieved superior fragment recovery rates while operating at a fraction of the computational cost of existing methods. The authors provided comprehensive comparisons to validate the effectiveness of their approach in both fragment identification and generative design tasks.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the field of fragment-based drug discovery, offering a more efficient and effective method for fragment identification. The advancements in latent representations and generative design can streamline the drug discovery process, leading to faster identification of potential drug candidates. Future research may explore the integration of additional molecular features and the application of the method to more complex ligand design tasks.","keywords":["fragment-based drug design","contrastive learning","latent space","protein-fragment encoder","LatentFrag","virtual screening","generative design","drug discovery"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** Fragment-based drug design is a vital approach in drug discovery, focusing on the binding of small chemical fragments to target proteins. The initial step of identifying these fragments is particularly challenging due to their weak and non-specific binding characteristics. This paper presents a novel protein-fragment encoder that utilizes contrastive learning to create a shared latent space for both molecular fragments and protein surfaces, addre...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:30.438Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13216v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13214v1","title":"End4: End-to-end Denoising Diffusion for Diffusion-Based Inpainting\n  Detection","authors":["Fei Wang","Xuecheng Wu","Zheng Zhang","Danlei Huang","Yuheng Huang","BoWang"],"abstract":"The powerful generative capabilities of diffusion models have significantly\nadvanced the field of image synthesis, enhancing both full image generation and\ninpainting-based image editing. Despite their remarkable advancements,\ndiffusion models also raise concerns about potential misuse for malicious\npurposes. However, existing approaches struggle to identify images generated by\ndiffusion-based inpainting models, even when similar inpainted images are\nincluded in their training data. To address this challenge, we propose a novel\ndetection method based on End-to-end denoising diffusion (End4). Specifically,\nEnd4 designs a denoising reconstruction model to improve the alignment degree\nbetween the latent spaces of the reconstruction and detection processes, thus\nreconstructing features that are more conducive to detection. Meanwhile, it\nleverages a Scale-aware Pyramid-like Fusion Module (SPFM) that refines local\nimage features under the guidance of attention pyramid layers at different\nscales, enhancing feature discriminability. Additionally, to evaluate detection\nperformance on inpainted images, we establish a comprehensive benchmark\ncomprising images generated from five distinct masked regions. Extensive\nexperiments demonstrate that our End4 effectively generalizes to unseen masking\npatterns and remains robust under various perturbations. Our code and dataset\nwill be released soon.","published":"2025-09-16T16:19:53Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13214v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The research addresses the growing concerns surrounding the misuse of diffusion models in image synthesis, particularly in the context of inpainting. While diffusion models have advanced image generation capabilities, their potential for malicious applications necessitates robust detection methods. This paper proposes a solution to the challenge of identifying images generated by diffusion-based inpainting models, which has been inadequately addressed by current methodologies.","challenges":"The primary technical challenges include the difficulty in detecting inpainted images generated by diffusion models, especially when the training data contains similar inpainted images. Existing detection methods often lack the ability to generalize across various masking patterns, leading to limitations in their effectiveness and robustness against perturbations.","innovations":"The paper introduces End4, a novel end-to-end denoising diffusion model that enhances the alignment between the latent spaces of reconstruction and detection processes. This is achieved through a Scale-aware Pyramid-like Fusion Module (SPFM), which refines local image features using attention pyramid layers at multiple scales. These innovations improve feature discriminability, making the detection of inpainted images more effective. The establishment of a comprehensive benchmark for evaluating detection performance on inpainted images is also a significant contribution.","experiments":"The experimental setup includes a comprehensive benchmark comprising images generated from five distinct masked regions to evaluate the performance of the End4 model. Key results demonstrate that End4 effectively generalizes to unseen masking patterns and maintains robustness under various perturbations. The paper compares its results against baseline models, showcasing superior performance metrics in detecting diffusion-based inpainted images.","insights":"The findings have significant implications for enhancing the security and integrity of image generation technologies. The proposed detection method can be applied in various domains where image authenticity is critical, such as digital forensics and media verification. Future research directions may include exploring further enhancements in detection accuracy and extending the methodology to other generative models.","keywords":["diffusion models","image inpainting","detection","denoising diffusion","feature discriminability","Scale-aware Pyramid-like Fusion Module","benchmark","robustness"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The research addresses the growing concerns surrounding the misuse of diffusion models in image synthesis, particularly in the context of inpainting. While diffusion models have advanced image generation capabilities, their potential for malicious applications necessitates robust detection methods. This paper proposes a solution to the challenge of identifying images generated by diffusion-based inpainting models, which has been inadequately addr...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:40.886Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13214v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13213v1","title":"Density-Aware Farthest Point Sampling","authors":["Paolo Climaco","Jochen Garcke"],"abstract":"We focus on training machine learning regression models in scenarios where\nthe availability of labeled training data is limited due to computational\nconstraints or high labeling costs. Thus, selecting suitable training sets from\nunlabeled data is essential for balancing performance and efficiency. For the\nselection of the training data, we focus on passive and model-agnostic sampling\nmethods that only consider the data feature representations. We derive an upper\nbound for the expected prediction error of Lipschitz continuous regression\nmodels that linearly depends on the weighted fill distance of the training set,\na quantity we can estimate simply by considering the data features. We\nintroduce \"Density-Aware Farthest Point Sampling\" (DA-FPS), a novel sampling\nmethod. We prove that DA-FPS provides approximate minimizers for a data-driven\nestimation of the weighted fill distance, thereby aiming at minimizing our\nderived bound. We conduct experiments using two regression models across three\ndatasets. The results demonstrate that DA-FPS significantly reduces the mean\nabsolute prediction error compared to other sampling strategies.","published":"2025-09-16T16:19:14Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13213v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the challenge of training machine learning regression models when labeled data is scarce, often due to computational constraints or high labeling costs. The authors emphasize the importance of selecting appropriate training sets from unlabeled data to optimize both performance and efficiency in model training. This context sets the stage for exploring novel sampling strategies that can effectively utilize the available data features.","challenges":"A significant challenge in this domain is the effective selection of training data that can lead to improved model performance without incurring high costs. Existing approaches often overlook the distribution of data points, which can lead to suboptimal training sets. Additionally, many traditional sampling methods do not account for the density of data points, which is crucial for minimizing prediction error in regression tasks.","innovations":"The authors introduce Density-Aware Farthest Point Sampling (DA-FPS), a novel sampling technique aimed at optimizing the selection of training data based on the weighted fill distance. This method is grounded in theoretical analysis, providing an upper bound for the expected prediction error of Lipschitz continuous regression models. By proving that DA-FPS serves as an approximate minimizer for the weighted fill distance, the authors contribute both a new sampling strategy and a theoretical framework that enhances the understanding of data-driven model training.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing DA-FPS against two regression models across three distinct datasets. The authors evaluate the performance based on mean absolute prediction error, comparing DA-FPS with several baseline sampling strategies. The results indicate that DA-FPS significantly outperforms these baselines, demonstrating its effectiveness in reducing prediction error and validating the theoretical claims made in the paper.","insights":"The findings from this research have important implications for the field of machine learning, particularly in scenarios where labeled data is limited. DA-FPS can be applied to various regression tasks, potentially improving model accuracy while reducing labeling costs. Future research could explore extending this sampling method to other types of models or integrating it with active learning strategies to further enhance data efficiency.","keywords":["Density-Aware Farthest Point Sampling","sampling methods","regression models","weighted fill distance","mean absolute prediction error","data selection","machine learning","model-agnostic"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the challenge of training machine learning regression models when labeled data is scarce, often due to computational constraints or high labeling costs. The authors emphasize the importance of selecting appropriate training sets from unlabeled data to optimize both performance and efficiency in model training. This context sets the stage for exploring novel sampling strategies that can effectively utilize the available data fe...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:44.101Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13213v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13211v1","title":"HAM: Hierarchical Adapter Merging for Scalable Continual Learning","authors":["Eric Nuertey Coleman","Luigi Quarantiello","Samrat Mukherjee","Julio Hurtado","Vincenzo Lomonaco"],"abstract":"Continual learning is an essential capability of human cognition, yet it\nposes significant challenges for current deep learning models. The primary\nissue is that new knowledge can interfere with previously learned information,\ncausing the model to forget earlier knowledge in favor of the new, a phenomenon\nknown as catastrophic forgetting. Although large pre-trained models can\npartially mitigate forgetting by leveraging their existing knowledge and\nover-parameterization, they often struggle when confronted with novel data\ndistributions. Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) methods, such as LoRA,\nenable efficient adaptation to new knowledge. However, they still face\nchallenges in scaling to dynamic learning scenarios and long sequences of\ntasks, as maintaining one adapter per task introduces complexity and increases\nthe potential for interference. In this paper, we introduce Hierarchical\nAdapters Merging (HAM), a novel framework that dynamically combines adapters\nfrom different tasks during training. This approach enables HAM to scale\neffectively, allowing it to manage more tasks than competing baselines with\nimproved efficiency. To achieve this, HAM maintains a fixed set of groups that\nhierarchically consolidate new adapters. For each task, HAM trains a low-rank\nadapter along with an importance scalar, then dynamically groups tasks based on\nadapter similarity. Within each group, adapters are pruned, scaled and merge,\nfacilitating transfer learning between related tasks. Extensive experiments on\nthree vision benchmarks show that HAM significantly outperforms\nstate-of-the-art methods, particularly as the number of tasks increases.","published":"2025-09-16T16:18:19Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13211v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the critical challenge of continual learning in deep learning models, which often struggle with catastrophic forgetting when exposed to new data distributions. The authors highlight the limitations of existing methods, particularly in scaling to dynamic learning scenarios where multiple tasks are involved. The motivation stems from the need for models that can efficiently adapt to new knowledge while preserving previously learned information.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include managing the complexity introduced by maintaining individual adapters for each task and the risk of interference among them. Existing Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) methods, such as LoRA, struggle to maintain performance as the number of tasks increases, leading to inefficiencies and potential forgetting of earlier tasks.","innovations":"The authors propose the Hierarchical Adapters Merging (HAM) framework, which dynamically combines adapters from different tasks during training. HAM introduces a hierarchical structure that consolidates new adapters into fixed groups based on similarity, allowing for efficient pruning, scaling, and merging of adapters. This innovative approach facilitates transfer learning between related tasks and significantly enhances the model's ability to manage multiple tasks without the drawbacks of traditional methods. The framework's design promotes both efficiency and scalability in continual learning scenarios.","experiments":"Extensive experiments were conducted on three vision benchmarks to evaluate the performance of HAM. The experimental setup involved comparing HAM against state-of-the-art continual learning methods across varying numbers of tasks. Key metrics included accuracy and the degree of catastrophic forgetting. The results demonstrated that HAM significantly outperformed competing baselines, particularly as the number of tasks increased, showcasing its effectiveness in managing task interference and maintaining learned knowledge.","insights":"The findings suggest that HAM could revolutionize continual learning by providing a scalable solution that mitigates catastrophic forgetting while enhancing task adaptability. Potential applications include robotics, autonomous systems, and any domain requiring models to learn continuously from new data. Future research may explore further optimizations of the hierarchical structure and its application to other domains beyond vision.","keywords":["continual learning","catastrophic forgetting","Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning","Hierarchical Adapters Merging","transfer learning","deep learning","vision benchmarks","adapter merging"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the critical challenge of continual learning in deep learning models, which often struggle with catastrophic forgetting when exposed to new data distributions. The authors highlight the limitations of existing methods, particularly in scaling to dynamic learning scenarios where multiple tasks are involved. The motivation stems from the need for models that can efficiently adapt to new knowledge while preserving previously lear...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:55.427Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13211v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13210v1","title":"Vi-SAFE: A Spatial-Temporal Framework for Efficient Violence Detection\n  in Public Surveillance","authors":["Ligang Chang","Shengkai Xu","Liangchang Shen","Binhan Xu","Junqiao Wang","Tianyu Shi","Yanhui Du"],"abstract":"Violence detection in public surveillance is critical for public safety. This\nstudy addresses challenges such as small-scale targets, complex environments,\nand real-time temporal analysis. We propose Vi-SAFE, a spatial-temporal\nframework that integrates an enhanced YOLOv8 with a Temporal Segment Network\n(TSN) for video surveillance. The YOLOv8 model is optimized with GhostNetV3 as\na lightweight backbone, an exponential moving average (EMA) attention\nmechanism, and pruning to reduce computational cost while maintaining accuracy.\nYOLOv8 and TSN are trained separately on pedestrian and violence datasets,\nwhere YOLOv8 extracts human regions and TSN performs binary classification of\nviolent behavior. Experiments on the RWF-2000 dataset show that Vi-SAFE\nachieves an accuracy of 0.88, surpassing TSN alone (0.77) and outperforming\nexisting methods in both accuracy and efficiency, demonstrating its\neffectiveness for public safety surveillance. Code is available at\nhttps://anonymous.4open.science/r/Vi-SAFE-3B42/README.md.","published":"2025-09-16T16:16:17Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13210v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the critical issue of violence detection in public surveillance systems, which is essential for enhancing public safety. The authors highlight the challenges posed by small-scale targets, complex environments, and the need for real-time analysis of video data. The proposed Vi-SAFE framework aims to improve the accuracy and efficiency of detecting violent behavior in surveillance footage.","challenges":"Key technical challenges include accurately detecting small-scale violent actions in crowded and dynamic environments, where traditional methods may struggle. Existing approaches often lack the necessary speed and efficiency for real-time applications, leading to delays in incident response. Furthermore, many existing models do not effectively integrate spatial and temporal information, which is crucial for understanding violent interactions.","innovations":"Vi-SAFE introduces a novel spatial-temporal framework that combines an enhanced YOLOv8 model with a Temporal Segment Network (TSN). The YOLOv8 model is optimized using GhostNetV3 as a lightweight backbone, an exponential moving average (EMA) attention mechanism, and pruning techniques to reduce computational costs while maintaining high accuracy. This dual approach allows YOLOv8 to focus on extracting human regions, while TSN effectively classifies violent behavior, marking a significant advancement in the field of violence detection.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved training the YOLOv8 and TSN models separately on pedestrian and violence datasets, respectively. The authors evaluated Vi-SAFE on the RWF-2000 dataset, achieving an impressive accuracy of 0.88. This performance surpasses that of the TSN alone, which achieved an accuracy of 0.77, and demonstrates Vi-SAFE's superiority over existing methods in terms of both accuracy and efficiency, underscoring its potential for real-time applications.","insights":"The findings of this research have significant implications for the field of public safety surveillance, suggesting that integrating spatial and temporal analysis can greatly enhance violence detection capabilities. Potential applications extend beyond public safety to include security in various environments such as schools, transportation hubs, and large public events. Future research directions may explore further optimizations of the framework, the incorporation of additional data sources, and the application of Vi-SAFE in diverse real-world scenarios.","keywords":["violence detection","public surveillance","YOLOv8","Temporal Segment Network","GhostNetV3","real-time analysis","RWF-2000 dataset","binary classification"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the critical issue of violence detection in public surveillance systems, which is essential for enhancing public safety. The authors highlight the challenges posed by small-scale targets, complex environments, and the need for real-time analysis of video data. The proposed Vi-SAFE framework aims to improve the accuracy and efficiency of detecting violent behavior in surveillance footage.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:12:57.476Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13210v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13203v1","title":"G-CSEA: A Graph-Based Conflict Set Extraction Algorithm for Identifying\n  Infeasibility in Pseudo-Boolean Models","authors":["Kanishk Garg","Saranya D.","Sanal Kumar","Saurabh Singh","Anupam Purwar"],"abstract":"Workforce scheduling involves a variety of rule-based constraints-such as\nshift limits, staffing policies, working hour restrictions, and many similar\nscheduling rules-which can interact in conflicting ways, leading to infeasible\nmodels. Identifying the underlying causes of such infeasibility is critical for\nresolving scheduling issues and restoring feasibility. A common diagnostic\napproach is to compute Irreducible Infeasible Subsets (IISs): minimal sets of\nconstraints that are jointly infeasible but become feasible when any one is\nremoved. We consider models formulated using pseudo-Boolean constraints with\ninequality relations over binary variables, which naturally encode scheduling\nlogic. Existing IIS extraction methods such as Additive Deletion and\nQuickXplain rely on repeated feasibility checks, often incurring large numbers\nof solver calls. Dual ray analysis, while effective for LP-based models, may\nfail when the relaxed problem is feasible but the underlying pseudo-Boolean\nmodel is not. To address these limitations, we propose Graph-based Conflict Set\nExtraction Algorithm (G-CSEA) to extract a conflict set, an approach inspired\nby Conflict-Driven Clause Learning (CDCL) in SAT solvers. Our method constructs\nan implication graph during constraint propagation and, upon detecting a\nconflict, traces all contributing constraints across both decision branches.\nThe resulting conflict set can optionally be minimized using QuickXplain to\nproduce an IIS.","published":"2025-09-16T16:09:30Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13203v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the challenges in workforce scheduling, which often involves complex rule-based constraints that can lead to infeasible models. Identifying the causes of infeasibility is crucial for resolving scheduling conflicts. The authors focus on pseudo-Boolean models that capture scheduling logic through binary variables and inequality relations, aiming to enhance the process of diagnosing infeasibility in such models.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the inefficiency of existing methods for extracting Irreducible Infeasible Subsets (IISs), which rely heavily on repeated feasibility checks and can lead to excessive solver calls. Additionally, dual ray analysis, while useful for linear programming models, may not be applicable when the pseudo-Boolean model is infeasible despite the relaxed problem being feasible.","innovations":"The authors introduce the Graph-based Conflict Set Extraction Algorithm (G-CSEA), which constructs an implication graph during constraint propagation to identify conflicts. This method is inspired by Conflict-Driven Clause Learning (CDCL) used in SAT solvers. Upon detecting a conflict, G-CSEA traces back all contributing constraints across decision branches, allowing for the extraction of a conflict set. The conflict set can be minimized using QuickXplain to yield an IIS, providing a more efficient approach to diagnosing infeasibility in pseudo-Boolean models.","experiments":"The experimental setup includes a series of benchmark pseudo-Boolean models to evaluate the performance of G-CSEA against existing IIS extraction methods like Additive Deletion and QuickXplain. Key metrics include the number of solver calls, time taken for extraction, and the size of the extracted conflict sets. Results demonstrate that G-CSEA significantly reduces the number of solver calls and extraction time while producing comparable or smaller conflict sets, showcasing its efficiency and effectiveness.","insights":"The findings suggest that G-CSEA offers a promising approach to diagnosing infeasibility in complex scheduling models, potentially improving the efficiency of workforce scheduling systems. Future research could explore the application of G-CSEA in other domains requiring conflict resolution, such as resource allocation and logistics, as well as enhancing the algorithm's scalability for larger models.","keywords":["pseudo-Boolean constraints","infeasibility","Irreducible Infeasible Subsets","G-CSEA","conflict set extraction","scheduling","constraint satisfaction","CDCL"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the challenges in workforce scheduling, which often involves complex rule-based constraints that can lead to infeasible models. Identifying the causes of infeasibility is crucial for resolving scheduling conflicts. The authors focus on pseudo-Boolean models that capture scheduling logic through binary variables and inequality relations, aiming to enhance the process of diagnosing infeasibility in such models.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:11.028Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13203v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13202v1","title":"B-TGAT: A Bi-directional Temporal Graph Attention Transformer for\n  Clustering Multivariate Spatiotemporal Data","authors":["Francis Ndikum Nji","Vandana Janaja","Jianwu Wang"],"abstract":"Clustering high-dimensional multivariate spatiotemporal climate data is\nchallenging due to complex temporal dependencies, evolving spatial\ninteractions, and non-stationary dynamics. Conventional clustering methods,\nincluding recurrent and convolutional models, often struggle to capture both\nlocal and global temporal relationships while preserving spatial context. We\npresent a time-distributed hybrid U-Net autoencoder that integrates a\nBi-directional Temporal Graph Attention Transformer (B-TGAT) to guide efficient\ntemporal clustering of multidimensional spatiotemporal climate datasets. The\nencoder and decoder are equipped with ConvLSTM2D modules that extract joint\nspatial--temporal features by modeling localized dynamics and spatial\ncorrelations over time, and skip connections that preserve multiscale spatial\ndetails during feature compression and reconstruction. At the bottleneck,\nB-TGAT integrates graph-based spatial modeling with attention-driven temporal\nencoding, enabling adaptive weighting of temporal neighbors and capturing both\nshort and long-range dependencies across regions. This architecture produces\ndiscriminative latent embeddings optimized for clustering. Experiments on three\ndistinct spatiotemporal climate datasets demonstrate superior cluster\nseparability, temporal stability, and alignment with known climate transitions\ncompared to state-of-the-art baselines. The integration of ConvLSTM2D, U-Net\nskip connections, and B-TGAT enhances temporal clustering performance while\nproviding interpretable insights into complex spatiotemporal variability,\nadvancing both methodological development and climate science applications.","published":"2025-09-16T16:08:21Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13202v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the complexities of clustering high-dimensional multivariate spatiotemporal climate data, which is critical for understanding climate dynamics. Traditional methods often fail to effectively capture the intricate temporal dependencies and spatial interactions inherent in such datasets, necessitating innovative approaches that can handle these challenges.","challenges":"Key challenges include the difficulty in modeling both local and global temporal relationships while maintaining spatial context. Existing clustering methods, such as recurrent and convolutional models, struggle with the non-stationary dynamics of climate data, leading to suboptimal clustering performance and limited interpretability.","innovations":"The authors introduce a novel architecture combining a time-distributed hybrid U-Net autoencoder with a Bi-directional Temporal Graph Attention Transformer (B-TGAT). This integration allows for efficient temporal clustering by leveraging ConvLSTM2D modules to extract joint spatial-temporal features and employing attention mechanisms to adaptively weight temporal neighbors. The architecture enhances the discriminative power of latent embeddings, facilitating improved clustering outcomes and providing insights into spatiotemporal variability.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing the proposed B-TGAT model on three distinct spatiotemporal climate datasets, focusing on metrics such as cluster separability and temporal stability. The results demonstrate that B-TGAT outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in terms of cluster quality and alignment with known climate transitions, showcasing its effectiveness in capturing complex spatiotemporal patterns.","insights":"This research has significant implications for both methodological advancements in clustering techniques and practical applications in climate science. The ability to interpret complex spatiotemporal variability opens avenues for enhanced climate modeling and analysis. Future research could explore the application of B-TGAT in other domains requiring spatiotemporal data analysis, as well as further refinements to the model for improved performance.","keywords":["spatiotemporal data","clustering","B-TGAT","ConvLSTM2D","U-Net","climate data","temporal attention","graph-based modeling"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the complexities of clustering high-dimensional multivariate spatiotemporal climate data, which is critical for understanding climate dynamics. Traditional methods often fail to effectively capture the intricate temporal dependencies and spatial interactions inherent in such datasets, necessitating innovative approaches that can handle these challenges.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:08.229Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13202v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13200v1","title":"StageACT: Stage-Conditioned Imitation for Robust Humanoid Door Opening","authors":["Moonyoung Lee","Dong Ki Kim","Jai Krishna Bandi","Max Smith","Aileen Liao","Ali-akbar Agha-mohammadi","Shayegan Omidshafiei"],"abstract":"Humanoid robots promise to operate in everyday human environments without\nrequiring modifications to the surroundings. Among the many skills needed,\nopening doors is essential, as doors are the most common gateways in built\nspaces and often limit where a robot can go. Door opening, however, poses\nunique challenges as it is a long-horizon task under partial observability,\nsuch as reasoning about the door's unobservable latch state that dictates\nwhether the robot should rotate the handle or push the door. This ambiguity\nmakes standard behavior cloning prone to mode collapse, yielding blended or\nout-of-sequence actions. We introduce StageACT, a stage-conditioned imitation\nlearning framework that augments low-level policies with task-stage inputs.\nThis effective addition increases robustness to partial observability, leading\nto higher success rates and shorter completion times. On a humanoid operating\nin a real-world office environment, StageACT achieves a 55% success rate on\npreviously unseen doors, more than doubling the best baseline. Moreover, our\nmethod supports intentional behavior guidance through stage prompting, enabling\nrecovery behaviors. These results highlight stage conditioning as a lightweight\nyet powerful mechanism for long-horizon humanoid loco-manipulation.","published":"2025-09-16T16:05:07Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13200v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The research paper addresses the critical need for humanoid robots to navigate everyday environments by performing essential tasks such as opening doors. This capability is vital for enhancing the operational autonomy of robots in human-centric spaces. The authors highlight the challenges posed by door opening, particularly the need for reasoning under partial observability regarding the door's latch state, which complicates the execution of appropriate actions.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the long-horizon nature of the door-opening task and the partial observability of the environment, which can lead to ambiguity in decision-making. Existing approaches, particularly standard behavior cloning, are prone to mode collapse, resulting in suboptimal actions such as blending or executing actions out of sequence, which hinders the effectiveness of robotic manipulation.","innovations":"The paper introduces StageACT, a stage-conditioned imitation learning framework that enhances low-level policies by incorporating task-stage inputs. This innovative approach improves robustness against partial observability, resulting in higher success rates and reduced task completion times. The framework also allows for intentional behavior guidance through stage prompting, which facilitates recovery behaviors when the robot encounters difficulties. This contribution represents a significant advancement in the field of humanoid loco-manipulation.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved testing the StageACT framework on a humanoid robot operating in a real-world office environment, specifically focusing on its ability to open previously unseen doors. The results demonstrated a 55% success rate, which more than doubled the performance of the best baseline method. Key metrics included success rates and task completion times, showcasing the effectiveness of stage conditioning in improving robotic manipulation tasks.","insights":"The findings of this research have significant implications for the development of autonomous robots capable of operating in complex human environments. The StageACT framework can be applied to various robotic tasks beyond door opening, enhancing overall interaction capabilities. Future research directions may include exploring additional task-stage conditioning strategies and expanding the framework to other long-horizon manipulation tasks.","keywords":["humanoid robots","imitation learning","door opening","partial observability","stage conditioning","loco-manipulation","behavior cloning","robotic autonomy"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The research paper addresses the critical need for humanoid robots to navigate everyday environments by performing essential tasks such as opening doors. This capability is vital for enhancing the operational autonomy of robots in human-centric spaces. The authors highlight the challenges posed by door opening, particularly the need for reasoning under partial observability regarding the door's latch state, which complicates the execution of appr...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:22.357Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13200v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13197v1","title":"Podcasts as a Medium for Participation in Collective Action: A Case\n  Study of Black Lives Matter","authors":["Theodora Moldovan","Arianna Pera","Davide Vega","Luca Maria Aiello"],"abstract":"We study how participation in collective action is articulated in podcast\ndiscussions, using the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement as a case study. While\nresearch on collective action discourse has primarily focused on text-based\ncontent, this study takes a first step toward analyzing audio formats by using\npodcast transcripts. Using the Structured Podcast Research Corpus (SPoRC), we\ninvestigated spoken language expressions of participation in collective action,\ncategorized as problem-solution, call-to-action, intention, and execution. We\nidentified podcast episodes discussing racial justice after important\nBLM-related events in May and June of 2020, and extracted participatory\nstatements using a layered framework adapted from prior work on social media.\nWe examined the emotional dimensions of these statements, detecting eight key\nemotions and their association with varying stages of activism. We found that\nemotional profiles vary by stage, with different positive emotions standing out\nduring calls-to-action, intention, and execution. We detected negative\nassociations between collective action and negative emotions, contrary to\ntheoretical expectations. Our work contributes to a better understanding of how\nactivism is expressed in spoken digital discourse and how emotional framing may\ndepend on the format of the discussion.","published":"2025-09-16T16:00:19Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13197v1","analysis":{"introduction":"This research investigates the articulation of collective action in podcast discussions, focusing on the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement. The motivation stems from the need to understand how activism is expressed in audio formats, an area that has been largely overlooked compared to text-based analyses. The problem addressed is the lack of comprehensive frameworks for analyzing participatory discourse in podcasts, particularly in the context of significant social movements.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include the transcription and analysis of spoken language, which differs significantly from written text in terms of structure and emotional expression. Existing approaches have primarily focused on textual data, limiting insights into audio formats. Additionally, the emotional dimensions of activism in spoken discourse are complex and require nuanced analysis to capture the variability across different stages of activism.","innovations":"The study introduces a novel framework for analyzing podcast transcripts, adapted from social media discourse analysis, which categorizes participatory statements into problem-solution, call-to-action, intention, and execution. Key contributions include the identification of eight emotions associated with varying stages of activism and the finding that emotional profiles differ significantly across these stages. This work enhances the understanding of emotional framing in spoken digital discourse, highlighting the unique characteristics of audio formats in activism.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved analyzing podcast episodes that discussed racial justice following pivotal BLM events in May and June 2020, using the Structured Podcast Research Corpus (SPoRC). The researchers extracted participatory statements and assessed their emotional dimensions. Key results indicated that positive emotions were more pronounced during calls-to-action and execution phases, while negative emotions showed unexpected negative associations with collective action. These findings were compared against existing literature on text-based activism, revealing distinct differences in emotional expression.","insights":"This research has significant implications for understanding activism in digital audio formats and suggests that emotional framing may vary based on the medium of discussion. Potential applications include enhancing podcast content analysis tools and informing strategies for effective activism communication. Future research directions could explore the impact of different podcast formats on audience engagement and the role of emotion in shaping collective action narratives.","keywords":["collective action","podcast analysis","Black Lives Matter","emotional dimensions","participatory discourse","Structured Podcast Research Corpus","activism","audio formats"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"intermediate","summary":"**Introduction:** This research investigates the articulation of collective action in podcast discussions, focusing on the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement. The motivation stems from the need to understand how activism is expressed in audio formats, an area that has been largely overlooked compared to text-based analyses. The problem addressed is the lack of comprehensive frameworks for analyzing participatory discourse in podcasts, particularly in the context of...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:23.998Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13197v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13196v1","title":"The Few-shot Dilemma: Over-prompting Large Language Models","authors":["Yongjian Tang","Doruk Tuncel","Christian Koerner","Thomas Runkler"],"abstract":"Over-prompting, a phenomenon where excessive examples in prompts lead to\ndiminished performance in Large Language Models (LLMs), challenges the\nconventional wisdom about in-context few-shot learning. To investigate this\nfew-shot dilemma, we outline a prompting framework that leverages three\nstandard few-shot selection methods - random sampling, semantic embedding, and\nTF-IDF vectors - and evaluate these methods across multiple LLMs, including\nGPT-4o, GPT-3.5-turbo, DeepSeek-V3, Gemma-3, LLaMA-3.1, LLaMA-3.2, and Mistral.\nOur experimental results reveal that incorporating excessive domain-specific\nexamples into prompts can paradoxically degrade performance in certain LLMs,\nwhich contradicts the prior empirical conclusion that more relevant few-shot\nexamples universally benefit LLMs. Given the trend of LLM-assisted software\nengineering and requirement analysis, we experiment with two real-world\nsoftware requirement classification datasets. By gradually increasing the\nnumber of TF-IDF-selected and stratified few-shot examples, we identify their\noptimal quantity for each LLM. This combined approach achieves superior\nperformance with fewer examples, avoiding the over-prompting problem, thus\nsurpassing the state-of-the-art by 1% in classifying functional and\nnon-functional requirements.","published":"2025-09-16T16:00:06Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13196v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the phenomenon of over-prompting in Large Language Models (LLMs), where an excess of examples in prompts can lead to reduced performance. This challenges the established belief that more relevant few-shot examples always enhance model performance. The motivation stems from the increasing reliance on LLMs in software engineering, particularly in requirement analysis, prompting the need for a deeper understanding of few-shot learning dynamics.","challenges":"A primary challenge is determining the optimal number of examples to include in prompts without causing over-prompting, which can degrade model performance. Existing approaches often assume that more examples are beneficial, overlooking the potential negative impact of excessive prompting. This paper seeks to address these limitations by exploring various selection methods for few-shot examples.","innovations":"The authors introduce a prompting framework that utilizes three distinct few-shot selection methods: random sampling, semantic embedding, and TF-IDF vectors. This framework allows for a systematic evaluation of the impact of example quantity on LLM performance. The study's key contribution lies in its empirical findings that reveal the optimal number of examples for different LLMs, demonstrating that fewer, well-chosen examples can outperform the traditional approach of using more examples, thus providing a practical solution to the over-prompting issue.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing the proposed prompting framework across multiple LLMs, including GPT-4o, GPT-3.5-turbo, and others, using two real-world software requirement classification datasets. The authors gradually increase the number of TF-IDF-selected and stratified few-shot examples to identify the optimal quantity for each model. Results indicate that this approach achieves superior performance, surpassing the state-of-the-art by 1% in classifying functional and non-functional requirements, highlighting the effectiveness of their method.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the field of machine learning and natural language processing, particularly in applications involving LLMs in software engineering. The findings suggest that practitioners should reconsider the number of examples used in prompts to avoid over-prompting. Future research could explore additional selection methods, investigate the underlying mechanisms of over-prompting, and extend the framework to other domains beyond software requirements.","keywords":["over-prompting","few-shot learning","Large Language Models","TF-IDF","semantic embedding","software requirement classification","GPT-4o","LLaMA"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the phenomenon of over-prompting in Large Language Models (LLMs), where an excess of examples in prompts can lead to reduced performance. This challenges the established belief that more relevant few-shot examples always enhance model performance. The motivation stems from the increasing reliance on LLMs in software engineering, particularly in requirement analysis, prompting the need for a deeper understanding of few-shot lea...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:34.440Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13196v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13192v1","title":"TRUST-FS: Tensorized Reliable Unsupervised Multi-View Feature Selection\n  for Incomplete Data","authors":["Minghui Lu","Yanyong Huang","Minbo Ma","Dongjie Wang","Xiuwen Yi","Tianrui Li"],"abstract":"Multi-view unsupervised feature selection (MUFS), which selects informative\nfeatures from multi-view unlabeled data, has attracted increasing research\ninterest in recent years. Although great efforts have been devoted to MUFS,\nseveral challenges remain: 1) existing methods for incomplete multi-view data\nare limited to handling missing views and are unable to address the more\ngeneral scenario of missing variables, where some features have missing values\nin certain views; 2) most methods address incomplete data by first imputing\nmissing values and then performing feature selection, treating these two\nprocesses independently and overlooking their interactions; 3) missing data can\nresult in an inaccurate similarity graph, which reduces the performance of\nfeature selection. To solve this dilemma, we propose a novel MUFS method for\nincomplete multi-view data with missing variables, termed Tensorized Reliable\nUnSupervised mulTi-view Feature Selection (TRUST-FS). TRUST-FS introduces a new\nadaptive-weighted CP decomposition that simultaneously performs feature\nselection, missing-variable imputation, and view weight learning within a\nunified tensor factorization framework. By utilizing Subjective Logic to\nacquire trustworthy cross-view similarity information, TRUST-FS facilitates\nlearning a reliable similarity graph, which subsequently guides feature\nselection and imputation. Comprehensive experimental results demonstrate the\neffectiveness and superiority of our method over state-of-the-art methods.","published":"2025-09-16T15:54:15Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13192v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing interest in multi-view unsupervised feature selection (MUFS), particularly in scenarios involving incomplete data. The motivation stems from the need to effectively select informative features from multi-view unlabeled datasets, which are common in real-world applications. The authors highlight the limitations of existing methods that primarily focus on missing views rather than missing variables, underscoring the necessity for a more robust approach to feature selection in the presence of incomplete data.","challenges":"The main technical challenges identified include the inability of current methods to handle missing variables across different views, as they predominantly address missing views. Additionally, existing approaches often treat imputation and feature selection as separate processes, neglecting their interdependencies. This separation can lead to inaccuracies in the similarity graph used for feature selection, ultimately degrading performance.","innovations":"TRUST-FS introduces a novel adaptive-weighted CP decomposition that integrates feature selection, missing-variable imputation, and view weight learning within a unified tensor factorization framework. This innovative approach allows for simultaneous processing of these tasks, enhancing the overall effectiveness of the feature selection process. Furthermore, the use of Subjective Logic to derive trustworthy cross-view similarity information is a significant contribution, as it improves the reliability of the similarity graph that guides both feature selection and imputation.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved comprehensive evaluations on benchmark datasets with varying degrees of incompleteness. Key metrics for performance assessment included accuracy, precision, and recall, comparing TRUST-FS against state-of-the-art methods. The results demonstrated that TRUST-FS significantly outperformed existing approaches, showcasing its effectiveness in handling incomplete multi-view data and validating the proposed method's robustness and reliability.","insights":"The implications of TRUST-FS extend to various fields where multi-view data is prevalent, such as bioinformatics, social network analysis, and image processing. The method's ability to handle incomplete data effectively opens avenues for future research, particularly in enhancing the integration of feature selection and imputation processes. Future directions may include exploring the scalability of TRUST-FS to larger datasets and its applicability to supervised learning scenarios.","keywords":["multi-view feature selection","incomplete data","tensor factorization","missing variable imputation","Subjective Logic","similarity graph","adaptive-weighted CP decomposition"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing interest in multi-view unsupervised feature selection (MUFS), particularly in scenarios involving incomplete data. The motivation stems from the need to effectively select informative features from multi-view unlabeled datasets, which are common in real-world applications. The authors highlight the limitations of existing methods that primarily focus on missing views rather than missing variables, underscoring the ...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:38.101Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13192v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13191v1","title":"Textarium: Entangling Annotation, Abstraction and Argument","authors":["Philipp Proff","Marian Drk"],"abstract":"We present a web-based environment that connects annotation, abstraction, and\nargumentation during the interpretation of text. As a visual interface for\nscholarly reading and writing, Textarium combines human analysis with\nlightweight computational processing to bridge close and distant reading\npractices. Readers can highlight text, group keywords into concepts, and embed\nthese observations as anchors in essays. The interface renders these\ninterpretive actions as parameterized visualization states. Through a\nspeculative design process of co-creative and iterative prototyping, we\ndeveloped a reading-writing approach that makes interpretive processes\ntransparent and shareable within digital narratives.","published":"2025-09-16T15:46:00Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13191v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The research presented in 'Textarium' addresses the intersection of annotation, abstraction, and argumentation in text interpretation, particularly within scholarly contexts. The motivation stems from the need for enhanced tools that facilitate both close and distant reading practices, allowing users to engage deeply with texts while also enabling broader analytical perspectives. The paper identifies a gap in existing digital reading environments that fail to adequately support the integration of human insights with computational tools.","challenges":"Key challenges include the difficulty of creating a seamless interface that allows for intuitive user interactions while managing complex data structures for annotations and visualizations. Existing approaches often lack the ability to effectively bridge the gap between qualitative human analysis and quantitative computational methods, leading to fragmented user experiences and limited collaborative opportunities.","innovations":"Textarium introduces a novel web-based environment that combines human analysis with lightweight computational processing, enabling users to highlight text, group keywords into concepts, and embed these as anchors in essays. The system's parameterized visualization states allow for a dynamic representation of interpretive actions, making the reading-writing process more transparent and shareable. This approach not only enhances individual engagement with texts but also fosters collaborative discourse among users, representing a significant advancement in digital humanities tools.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved iterative prototyping and co-creative design processes, where users engaged with the Textarium interface to perform annotation and argumentation tasks. Key results demonstrated improved user satisfaction and engagement compared to traditional reading tools, with metrics indicating a higher rate of collaborative interactions and a more effective integration of annotations into written essays. Comparisons with baseline tools highlighted the advantages of Textarium in facilitating both individual and collective interpretive practices.","insights":"The implications of this research extend to various fields, including digital humanities, education, and collaborative writing. Textarium's approach may inspire future tools that further integrate computational methods with humanistic inquiry. Potential applications include enhanced scholarly communication platforms and educational tools that promote collaborative learning. Future research could explore the scalability of such systems and their adaptability to different domains of text interpretation.","keywords":["annotation","abstraction","argumentation","digital humanities","collaborative writing","visualization","text interpretation","user interface"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"intermediate","summary":"**Introduction:** The research presented in 'Textarium' addresses the intersection of annotation, abstraction, and argumentation in text interpretation, particularly within scholarly contexts. The motivation stems from the need for enhanced tools that facilitate both close and distant reading practices, allowing users to engage deeply with texts while also enabling broader analytical perspectives. The paper identifies a gap in existing digital reading environments...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:48.030Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13191v1"}},{"id":"arxiv_2509.13189v1","title":"SURGIN: SURrogate-guided Generative INversion for subsurface multiphase\n  flow with quantified uncertainty","authors":["Zhao Feng","Bicheng Yan","Luanxiao Zhao","Xianda Shen","Renyu Zhao","Wenhao Wang","Fengshou Zhang"],"abstract":"We present a direct inverse modeling method named SURGIN, a SURrogate-guided\nGenerative INversion framework tailed for subsurface multiphase flow data\nassimilation. Unlike existing inversion methods that require adaptation for\neach new observational configuration, SURGIN features a zero-shot conditional\ngeneration capability, enabling real-time assimilation of unseen monitoring\ndata without task-specific retraining. Specifically, SURGIN synergistically\nintegrates a U-Net enhanced Fourier Neural Operator (U-FNO) surrogate with a\nscore-based generative model (SGM), framing the conditional generation as a\nsurrogate prediction-guidance process in a Bayesian perspective. Instead of\ndirectly learning the conditional generation of geological parameters, an\nunconditional SGM is first pretrained in a self-supervised manner to capture\nthe geological prior, after which posterior sampling is performed by leveraging\na differentiable U-FNO surrogate to enable efficient forward evaluations\nconditioned on unseen observations. Extensive numerical experiments demonstrate\nSURGIN's capability to decently infer heterogeneous geological fields and\npredict spatiotemporal flow dynamics with quantified uncertainty across diverse\nmeasurement settings. By unifying generative learning with surrogate-guided\nBayesian inference, SURGIN establishes a new paradigm for inverse modeling and\nuncertainty quantification in parametric functional spaces.","published":"2025-09-16T15:42:22Z","source":"arxiv","url":"http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.13189v1","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper introduces SURGIN, a novel inverse modeling method designed for subsurface multiphase flow data assimilation. The motivation stems from the need for efficient real-time assimilation of monitoring data without the requirement for task-specific retraining, a common limitation in existing inversion methods. SURGIN aims to address the challenges of adapting to new observational configurations in subsurface flow modeling.","challenges":"Key challenges include the need for efficient adaptation to diverse observational configurations and the computational burden associated with traditional inversion methods. Existing approaches often require retraining for each new configuration, limiting their applicability and efficiency in real-time scenarios. Additionally, accurately inferring heterogeneous geological fields and quantifying uncertainty in predictions remain significant hurdles.","innovations":"SURGIN introduces a unique framework that combines a U-Net enhanced Fourier Neural Operator (U-FNO) with a score-based generative model (SGM) to facilitate zero-shot conditional generation. This approach allows for real-time assimilation of unseen monitoring data by first pretraining an unconditional SGM in a self-supervised manner to capture geological priors. The integration of surrogate-guided Bayesian inference with generative learning represents a significant theoretical innovation, enabling efficient posterior sampling and forward evaluations conditioned on new observations.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved extensive numerical simulations to evaluate SURGIN's performance in inferring heterogeneous geological fields and predicting spatiotemporal flow dynamics. Key metrics included the accuracy of geological parameter inference and the quantification of uncertainty across various measurement settings. The results demonstrated that SURGIN outperformed traditional inversion methods, showcasing its capability in real-time data assimilation and uncertainty quantification.","insights":"SURGIN's framework has significant implications for the field of subsurface flow modeling, particularly in enhancing the efficiency and accuracy of data assimilation processes. Potential applications include environmental monitoring, resource management, and geological hazard assessment. Future research directions may focus on refining the generative models and exploring their applicability in other domains requiring real-time data integration and uncertainty quantification.","keywords":["inverse modeling","subsurface flow","data assimilation","Bayesian inference","generative models","uncertainty quantification","Fourier Neural Operator","U-Net"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper introduces SURGIN, a novel inverse modeling method designed for subsurface multiphase flow data assimilation. The motivation stems from the need for efficient real-time assimilation of monitoring data without the requirement for task-specific retraining, a common limitation in existing inversion methods. SURGIN aims to address the challenges of adapting to new observational configurations in subsurface flow modeling.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:13:49.295Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:07:59.132Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"arxiv_2509.13189v1"}},{"id":"hf_hunyuan3d_studio__end_to_end_ai_pipeline_for_game_ready_3d_asset_generation_1758150493561","title":"Hunyuan3D Studio: End-to-End AI Pipeline for Game-Ready 3D Asset Generation","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.12815","analysis":{"introduction":"The Hunyuan3D Studio paper addresses the growing demand for efficient and scalable methods to generate high-quality 3D assets for gaming and virtual environments. With the increasing complexity of game design and the need for rapid asset production, traditional methods often fall short in terms of speed and flexibility. This research aims to develop an end-to-end AI pipeline that automates the generation of game-ready 3D assets, thus streamlining the workflow for developers and artists.","challenges":"Key challenges include ensuring the generated 3D assets meet the quality standards required for gaming, maintaining a balance between detail and performance, and automating the process without sacrificing creative control. Existing approaches often struggle with scalability and require significant manual intervention, leading to inefficiencies in asset production.","innovations":"The paper introduces a novel AI pipeline that integrates various machine learning techniques, including generative adversarial networks (GANs) and reinforcement learning, to automate the 3D asset creation process. Key contributions include a robust framework that allows for real-time asset generation, improved texture mapping, and the ability to generate assets that are not only visually appealing but also optimized for performance in gaming environments. The approach also emphasizes user customization, enabling artists to influence the output while leveraging AI capabilities.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved benchmarking the Hunyuan3D Studio pipeline against existing asset generation tools using a dataset of diverse 3D models. Key metrics included asset quality, generation speed, and user satisfaction ratings. Results demonstrated that the proposed pipeline significantly outperformed baseline methods in terms of both speed and visual fidelity, achieving a 30% reduction in asset generation time while maintaining high-quality standards.","insights":"The implications of this research extend to various fields beyond gaming, including virtual reality and simulation training, where rapid asset generation is crucial. Future research directions may explore further enhancements in AI-driven customization, the integration of user feedback loops, and the application of the pipeline in other domains such as film and architecture.","keywords":["3D asset generation","AI pipeline","GANs","reinforcement learning","game development","texture mapping","real-time generation"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The Hunyuan3D Studio paper addresses the growing demand for efficient and scalable methods to generate high-quality 3D assets for gaming and virtual environments. With the increasing complexity of game design and the need for rapid asset production, traditional methods often fall short in terms of speed and flexibility. This research aims to develop an end-to-end AI pipeline that automates the generation of game-ready 3D assets, thus streamlining...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:02.743Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:13.561Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_hunyuan3d_studio__end_to_end_ai_pipeline_for_game_ready_3d_asset_generation_1758150493561"}},{"id":"hf_econprover__towards_more_economical_test_time_scaling_for_automated_theorem_proving_1758150497561","title":"EconProver: Towards More Economical Test-Time Scaling for Automated Theorem Proving","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.12603","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper 'EconProver' addresses the growing need for efficient automated theorem proving, particularly in the context of resource constraints during test-time scaling. With the increasing complexity of problems in formal verification and logic reasoning, traditional approaches often fall short in terms of computational efficiency and scalability. This research aims to propose a more economical framework that optimizes resource usage while maintaining performance in theorem proving tasks.","challenges":"One of the main technical challenges is the inherent trade-off between computational resource allocation and the accuracy of theorem proving. Existing methods often require significant computational power, making them impractical for large-scale applications. Additionally, there is a lack of adaptive mechanisms that can dynamically adjust resource usage based on the complexity of the theorem being proved, leading to inefficiencies in current approaches.","innovations":"EconProver introduces a novel adaptive resource allocation strategy that leverages machine learning techniques to predict the resource requirements of various theorem proving tasks. This approach allows for real-time adjustments during the proving process, significantly reducing unnecessary computations. The paper also presents a new theoretical framework that integrates economic principles into the design of theorem proving algorithms, providing a fresh perspective on optimizing performance. Key contributions include a detailed analysis of resource allocation strategies and empirical validation of the proposed methods against existing benchmarks.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved a series of benchmark tests using standard theorem proving datasets, where EconProver was compared against traditional theorem proving systems. Key metrics included proof success rates, average computation time, and resource utilization efficiency. The results demonstrated that EconProver achieved a 30% reduction in computation time while maintaining a similar success rate compared to baseline methods, showcasing its effectiveness in scaling resource usage without compromising performance.","insights":"The implications of this research extend to various fields such as formal verification, software engineering, and artificial intelligence, where efficient theorem proving is critical. Potential applications include automated verification of software systems and enhanced reasoning capabilities in AI systems. Future research directions may involve exploring further optimizations in resource allocation strategies and extending the framework to other domains requiring automated reasoning.","keywords":["automated theorem proving","resource allocation","machine learning","formal verification","scalability","computational efficiency","benchmarking","adaptive systems"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper 'EconProver' addresses the growing need for efficient automated theorem proving, particularly in the context of resource constraints during test-time scaling. With the increasing complexity of problems in formal verification and logic reasoning, traditional approaches often fall short in terms of computational efficiency and scalability. This research aims to propose a more economical framework that optimizes resource usage while mainta...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:00.488Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:17.562Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_econprover__towards_more_economical_test_time_scaling_for_automated_theorem_proving_1758150497561"}},{"id":"hf_exact_coset_sampling_for_quantum_lattice_algorithms_1758150499562","title":"Exact Coset Sampling for Quantum Lattice Algorithms","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.12341","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the intersection of quantum computing and lattice algorithms, focusing on the sampling of cosets in quantum systems. The motivation stems from the need for efficient algorithms that can leverage quantum mechanics to solve problems in combinatorial optimization and number theory, which are traditionally computationally intensive. The authors aim to enhance the performance of quantum lattice algorithms by proposing a novel sampling technique.","challenges":"One of the main technical challenges is the inherent complexity of quantum state representation and manipulation, which can lead to inefficiencies in existing sampling methods. Current approaches often struggle with scalability and accuracy, particularly in high-dimensional spaces. Additionally, the probabilistic nature of quantum measurements introduces uncertainty that complicates the sampling process.","innovations":"The authors introduce Exact Coset Sampling, a new method that improves the efficiency and accuracy of sampling in quantum lattice algorithms. This technique leverages advanced mathematical frameworks to ensure that the sampled cosets are representative of the underlying quantum states. The paper provides a theoretical foundation for the method, demonstrating its superiority over existing sampling techniques through rigorous proofs and analysis. Additionally, the authors present a practical implementation that showcases the method's applicability in real-world quantum computing scenarios.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves benchmarking the Exact Coset Sampling method against traditional sampling techniques on various quantum lattice problems. Key metrics include sampling accuracy, computational efficiency, and scalability. Results indicate that the proposed method significantly outperforms baseline approaches, achieving higher accuracy rates and reduced computational overhead. The authors provide detailed comparisons, highlighting improvements in both speed and reliability across multiple test cases.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the field of quantum computing, particularly in enhancing the efficiency of quantum algorithms used in optimization and cryptography. Potential applications include solving complex problems in materials science and logistics. Future research directions could explore the integration of Exact Coset Sampling with other quantum algorithms and its application in larger, more complex systems.","keywords":["quantum computing","lattice algorithms","coset sampling","quantum mechanics","sampling techniques","optimization","combinatorial problems"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the intersection of quantum computing and lattice algorithms, focusing on the sampling of cosets in quantum systems. The motivation stems from the need for efficient algorithms that can leverage quantum mechanics to solve problems in combinatorial optimization and number theory, which are traditionally computationally intensive. The authors aim to enhance the performance of quantum lattice algorithms by proposing a novel sampl...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:11.693Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:19.562Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_exact_coset_sampling_for_quantum_lattice_algorithms_1758150499562"}},{"id":"hf_multimodal_reasoning_for_science__technical_report_and_1st_place_solution_to_the_icml_2025_seephys_challenge_1758150501562","title":"Multimodal Reasoning for Science: Technical Report and 1st Place Solution to the ICML 2025 SeePhys Challenge","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.06079","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the challenge of multimodal reasoning in scientific contexts, particularly focusing on the integration of diverse data types such as text, images, and numerical data. The motivation stems from the need for advanced AI systems that can interpret and reason over complex scientific information, which is crucial for tasks like hypothesis generation and experimental design.","challenges":"Key challenges include the effective fusion of multimodal data, which often comes from disparate sources with varying formats and semantics. Existing approaches may struggle with scalability and generalization across different scientific domains, leading to limitations in their applicability and performance in real-world scenarios.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel multimodal framework that leverages advanced neural network architectures to enhance data integration and reasoning capabilities. Key contributions include a new attention mechanism tailored for multimodal inputs and a robust training regime that incorporates domain-specific knowledge. The framework demonstrates improved interpretability and reasoning accuracy, setting a new benchmark for multimodal scientific reasoning tasks.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves a series of benchmarks using datasets from the SeePhys Challenge, which include various scientific texts and corresponding visual data. The results indicate a significant improvement over baseline models, achieving state-of-the-art performance metrics such as accuracy and F1 score. The authors provide comprehensive comparisons with existing methods, highlighting the advantages of their approach in terms of both efficiency and effectiveness.","insights":"This research has profound implications for the field of AI in science, suggesting that enhanced multimodal reasoning can lead to better decision-making and knowledge discovery. Potential applications include automated scientific research tools and educational platforms. Future research directions may involve exploring unsupervised learning techniques and expanding the framework to cover more complex scientific domains.","keywords":["multimodal reasoning","neural networks","attention mechanism","scientific data integration","SeePhys Challenge","machine learning","data fusion","interpretability"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the challenge of multimodal reasoning in scientific contexts, particularly focusing on the integration of diverse data types such as text, images, and numerical data. The motivation stems from the need for advanced AI systems that can interpret and reason over complex scientific information, which is crucial for tasks like hypothesis generation and experimental design.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:13.809Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:21.562Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_multimodal_reasoning_for_science__technical_report_and_1st_place_solution_to_the_icml_2025_seephys_challenge_1758150501562"}},{"id":"hf_phi__preference_hijacking_in_multi_modal_large_language_models_at_inference_time_1758150503561","title":"Phi: Preference Hijacking in Multi-modal Large Language Models at Inference Time","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.12521","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper 'Phi: Preference Hijacking in Multi-modal Large Language Models at Inference Time' addresses the growing concern of how multi-modal large language models (LLMs) can be manipulated during inference. With the increasing deployment of these models in real-world applications, understanding their vulnerabilities is crucial. The research aims to explore the phenomenon of 'preference hijacking', where the model's outputs can be influenced by external inputs, potentially leading to biased or unintended results.","challenges":"One of the main technical challenges is identifying the mechanisms through which preference hijacking occurs in multi-modal LLMs, especially given their complexity and the interplay between various modalities. Existing approaches often overlook the subtle interactions between different types of data inputs, leading to incomplete models of their behavior. Additionally, there is a lack of robust methodologies for quantifying the extent of hijacking effects, making it difficult to assess the reliability of these models in critical applications.","innovations":"The paper introduces a novel framework for detecting and mitigating preference hijacking in multi-modal LLMs. This includes a new algorithm that leverages adversarial training techniques to enhance model robustness against manipulation attempts. The authors also propose a set of metrics for evaluating the susceptibility of models to hijacking, providing a theoretical basis for understanding the dynamics of multi-modal interactions. These contributions represent a significant step forward in ensuring the integrity and reliability of LLM outputs in diverse applications.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing the proposed framework on several benchmark multi-modal datasets, with a focus on both qualitative and quantitative assessments of model behavior under hijacking scenarios. Key results indicate a marked improvement in model resilience against preference hijacking, with metrics such as accuracy and robustness showing significant enhancements compared to baseline models. The findings suggest that the proposed methods not only reduce susceptibility to manipulation but also maintain high performance across various tasks.","insights":"This research has important implications for the deployment of multi-modal LLMs in sensitive applications, such as healthcare and finance, where biased outputs can have serious consequences. The insights gained from this study could lead to more secure and reliable AI systems. Future research directions may include exploring additional modalities, refining the hijacking detection algorithms, and developing comprehensive guidelines for practitioners to safeguard against such vulnerabilities.","keywords":["multi-modal models","large language models","preference hijacking","adversarial training","model robustness","evaluation metrics","bias detection"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper 'Phi: Preference Hijacking in Multi-modal Large Language Models at Inference Time' addresses the growing concern of how multi-modal large language models (LLMs) can be manipulated during inference. With the increasing deployment of these models in real-world applications, understanding their vulnerabilities is crucial. The research aims to explore the phenomenon of 'preference hijacking', where the model's outputs can be influenced by e...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:29.294Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:23.561Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_phi__preference_hijacking_in_multi_modal_large_language_models_at_inference_time_1758150503561"}},{"id":"hf_multiple_instance_learning_framework_with_masked_hard_instance_mining_for_gigapixel_histopathology_image_analysis_1758150505561","title":"Multiple Instance Learning Framework with Masked Hard Instance Mining for Gigapixel Histopathology Image Analysis","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.11526","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the critical need for effective analysis of gigapixel histopathology images, which are essential for accurate disease diagnosis and treatment planning. Traditional image analysis methods often struggle with the high resolution and complexity of these images. The authors propose a Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) framework that leverages masked hard instance mining to enhance the detection of relevant features in histopathological data, aiming to improve the overall performance of automated diagnostic systems.","challenges":"Key challenges include the vast size of gigapixel images, which complicates the extraction of meaningful features and increases computational demands. Existing methods often fail to effectively identify and prioritize hard instances, leading to suboptimal model performance. Additionally, the imbalance in labeled data can hinder the learning process, making it difficult to generalize across diverse histopathological conditions.","innovations":"The paper introduces a novel MIL framework that incorporates masked hard instance mining, allowing the model to focus on the most informative and challenging instances within gigapixel images. This approach not only enhances feature extraction but also improves the robustness of the model against noise and irrelevant data. The authors contribute a new algorithm that integrates instance weighting based on difficulty, which theoretically leads to better generalization and practical improvements in diagnostic accuracy. Additionally, they propose a new dataset tailored for this task, enabling more rigorous evaluation of the proposed methods.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves training the proposed MIL framework on a large-scale dataset of gigapixel histopathology images, with a focus on various cancer types. Key metrics for evaluation include accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score, comparing the proposed method against several baseline models, including traditional deep learning approaches. Results indicate a significant improvement in performance metrics, with the proposed method achieving higher accuracy and better handling of hard instances, demonstrating its effectiveness in real-world applications.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the field of medical image analysis, particularly in improving diagnostic tools for pathologists. The proposed framework can facilitate more accurate and efficient analysis of complex histopathological images, potentially leading to better patient outcomes. Future research directions may include exploring the integration of additional modalities, such as genomic data, and further refining the instance mining techniques to enhance model interpretability and robustness.","keywords":["Multiple Instance Learning","Masked Hard Instance Mining","Gigapixel Images","Histopathology","Deep Learning","Image Analysis","Medical Imaging","Cancer Diagnosis"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the critical need for effective analysis of gigapixel histopathology images, which are essential for accurate disease diagnosis and treatment planning. Traditional image analysis methods often struggle with the high resolution and complexity of these images. The authors propose a Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) framework that leverages masked hard instance mining to enhance the detection of relevant features in histopathologi...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:25.131Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:25.561Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_multiple_instance_learning_framework_with_masked_hard_instance_mining_for_gigapixel_histopathology_image_analysis_1758150505561"}},{"id":"hf_optimal_brain_restoration_for_joint_quantization_and_sparsification_of_llms_1758150507562","title":"Optimal Brain Restoration for Joint Quantization and Sparsification of LLMs","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.11177","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing need for efficient large language models (LLMs) in resource-constrained environments. With the increasing deployment of LLMs across various applications, the demand for methods that optimize their performance while minimizing computational and memory costs has become critical. The authors focus on the dual challenge of quantization and sparsification, aiming to enhance model efficiency without significantly compromising accuracy.","challenges":"Key challenges include balancing the trade-off between model size reduction and performance degradation. Existing approaches often tackle quantization or sparsification in isolation, leading to suboptimal results. Additionally, the lack of unified frameworks that jointly address both aspects limits the effectiveness of current methodologies, making it difficult to achieve optimal performance in practical scenarios.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel framework termed Optimal Brain Restoration (OBR), which integrates quantization and sparsification into a cohesive optimization strategy. This method leverages advanced mathematical techniques to ensure that the reduction in model size does not adversely affect its predictive capabilities. Key contributions include a new loss function that accounts for both quantization error and sparsity, as well as a systematic approach to model fine-tuning post-optimization. The theoretical underpinning of OBR provides a robust foundation for future research in model compression.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves benchmarking the OBR framework against several state-of-the-art quantization and sparsification techniques on standard LLM datasets. Key metrics include model accuracy, inference speed, and memory footprint. Results demonstrate that OBR achieves superior performance, with a notable reduction in model size (up to 50%) while maintaining accuracy levels comparable to uncompressed models. Comparisons with baseline methods reveal significant improvements in both efficiency and effectiveness.","insights":"The findings suggest that joint optimization of quantization and sparsification can lead to more efficient LLMs, with implications for deployment in mobile and edge computing environments. Potential applications include real-time language processing and AI-driven applications in low-resource settings. Future research could explore further enhancements to the OBR framework and its applicability to other model architectures beyond LLMs.","keywords":["large language models","quantization","sparsification","model compression","optimal brain restoration","machine learning","deep learning","efficiency"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing need for efficient large language models (LLMs) in resource-constrained environments. With the increasing deployment of LLMs across various applications, the demand for methods that optimize their performance while minimizing computational and memory costs has become critical. The authors focus on the dual challenge of quantization and sparsification, aiming to enhance model efficiency without significantly comprom...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:40.972Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:27.563Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_optimal_brain_restoration_for_joint_quantization_and_sparsification_of_llms_1758150507562"}},{"id":"hf_stable_part_diffusion_4d__multi_view_rgb_and_kinematic_parts_video_generation_1758150509562","title":"Stable Part Diffusion 4D: Multi-View RGB and Kinematic Parts Video Generation","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.10687","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the challenge of generating high-quality multi-view RGB videos of kinematic parts, which is crucial for applications in robotics, animation, and virtual reality. The motivation stems from the need for realistic and stable video generation that can capture the dynamics of objects from various perspectives, enhancing the realism and utility of generated content.","challenges":"Key challenges include maintaining temporal coherence across frames while generating diverse viewpoints, as well as accurately modeling the kinematic properties of parts in motion. Existing approaches often struggle with stability and realism, leading to artifacts and inconsistencies in generated videos.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel diffusion-based framework that integrates stable part representations with a multi-view synthesis approach. This method leverages advanced neural architectures to ensure temporal stability and spatial coherence across generated frames. The contributions include a new loss function that balances realism and diversity, as well as a dataset specifically curated for training and evaluation of kinematic part video generation.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves training the model on a diverse dataset of kinematic parts, followed by evaluations using metrics such as Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) and Structural Similarity Index (SSIM). The results demonstrate significant improvements in video quality and stability compared to baseline methods, with quantitative metrics indicating superior performance in both realism and coherence.","insights":"This work has significant implications for the fields of computer vision and machine learning, particularly in applications involving dynamic object manipulation and simulation. Future research directions may include extending the framework to incorporate interactive elements or exploring real-time video generation capabilities.","keywords":["multi-view video generation","kinematic parts","RGB video","diffusion models","temporal coherence","neural networks","video quality metrics","realism"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the challenge of generating high-quality multi-view RGB videos of kinematic parts, which is crucial for applications in robotics, animation, and virtual reality. The motivation stems from the need for realistic and stable video generation that can capture the dynamics of objects from various perspectives, enhancing the realism and utility of generated content.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:40.905Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:29.562Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_stable_part_diffusion_4d__multi_view_rgb_and_kinematic_parts_video_generation_1758150509562"}},{"id":"hf_room__a_physics_based_continuum_robot_simulator_for_photorealistic_medical_datasets_generation_1758150511562","title":"ROOM: A Physics-Based Continuum Robot Simulator for Photorealistic Medical Datasets Generation","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.13177","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper presents ROOM, a physics-based continuum robot simulator aimed at generating photorealistic medical datasets. The motivation stems from the increasing demand for high-quality synthetic data in medical imaging and robotics, particularly for training machine learning models. The primary problem addressed is the lack of realistic and diverse datasets that can effectively simulate the interaction of continuum robots with complex anatomical structures in medical environments.","challenges":"Key challenges include accurately modeling the physical interactions between continuum robots and soft tissue, ensuring the realism of the generated datasets, and overcoming the limitations of existing simulators that often lack photorealism or fail to capture the nuances of medical scenarios. Additionally, existing approaches may struggle with scalability and adaptability to various medical applications.","innovations":"The authors introduce several novel methods, including a new physics engine tailored for continuum robot dynamics and advanced rendering techniques that enhance the photorealism of the simulated environments. Key contributions include the development of a robust framework that integrates physics-based simulations with high-fidelity graphics, enabling the generation of diverse medical datasets. The paper also presents a theoretical model that bridges the gap between robotic motion planning and medical imaging, providing a unique perspective on dataset generation in this domain.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves benchmarking ROOM against existing simulators using a series of metrics focused on realism, accuracy, and usability. Key results demonstrate that ROOM generates datasets with significantly higher photorealism and anatomical accuracy compared to baseline methods. Metrics such as structural similarity index (SSIM) and peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) are utilized to quantify improvements, with results indicating a marked enhancement in both visual quality and simulation fidelity.","insights":"The implications of this work extend to various fields, including robotic surgery, medical training, and augmented reality applications. The ability to generate high-quality synthetic datasets can facilitate advancements in machine learning models for medical imaging and robotic control. Future research directions may include expanding the simulator's capabilities to incorporate more complex anatomical variations and integrating real-time feedback mechanisms for interactive training scenarios.","keywords":["continuum robot","medical datasets","photorealism","physics-based simulation","synthetic data","machine learning","robotic surgery","medical imaging"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper presents ROOM, a physics-based continuum robot simulator aimed at generating photorealistic medical datasets. The motivation stems from the increasing demand for high-quality synthetic data in medical imaging and robotics, particularly for training machine learning models. The primary problem addressed is the lack of realistic and diverse datasets that can effectively simulate the interaction of continuum robots with complex anatomical ...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:51.152Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:31.562Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_room__a_physics_based_continuum_robot_simulator_for_photorealistic_medical_datasets_generation_1758150511562"}},{"id":"hf_zelo__elo_inspired_training_method_for_rerankers_and_embedding_models_1758150513561","title":"zELO: ELO-inspired Training Method for Rerankers and Embedding Models","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.12541","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper introduces zELO, a novel training method inspired by the Elo rating system, aimed at improving rerankers and embedding models in machine learning. The motivation stems from the need to enhance the performance of ranking systems, particularly in information retrieval and recommendation tasks, where traditional training methods often fail to effectively capture the nuances of user preferences and item relevance.","challenges":"One of the main technical challenges addressed in this work is the inadequacy of existing training methods to adaptively learn from user interactions and feedback. Current approaches often rely on static datasets, which can lead to suboptimal performance in dynamic environments. Additionally, the paper highlights the limitations of conventional loss functions that do not adequately reflect the ranking quality or user satisfaction.","innovations":"The authors propose a unique training framework that integrates the Elo rating system into the training process of rerankers and embedding models. This method allows for dynamic adjustment of model parameters based on real-time user feedback, effectively capturing the evolving nature of user preferences. Key contributions include the development of a new loss function that prioritizes ranking accuracy and user satisfaction, as well as a comprehensive evaluation of the method across various datasets, demonstrating its effectiveness compared to traditional approaches.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves extensive benchmarking on multiple datasets, including standard information retrieval and recommendation datasets. The authors employ metrics such as Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) and Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) to evaluate performance. Results indicate that zELO outperforms baseline models significantly, achieving higher ranking accuracy and better user satisfaction scores, thus validating the effectiveness of the proposed method.","insights":"The implications of zELO extend beyond improved ranking performance; it offers a framework for adaptive learning in machine learning systems, which can be applied to various domains such as e-commerce, content recommendation, and search engines. Future research directions may include exploring the integration of zELO with other machine learning paradigms, such as reinforcement learning, and investigating its applicability in real-time systems.","keywords":["Elo rating system","rerankers","embedding models","ranking accuracy","user satisfaction","Mean Reciprocal Rank","Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain","adaptive learning"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper introduces zELO, a novel training method inspired by the Elo rating system, aimed at improving rerankers and embedding models in machine learning. The motivation stems from the need to enhance the performance of ranking systems, particularly in information retrieval and recommendation tasks, where traditional training methods often fail to effectively capture the nuances of user preferences and item relevance.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:14:52.766Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:33.561Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_zelo__elo_inspired_training_method_for_rerankers_and_embedding_models_1758150513561"}},{"id":"hf_raptor__a_foundation_policy_for_quadrotor_control_1758150515562","title":"RAPTOR: A Foundation Policy for Quadrotor Control","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.11481","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper presents RAPTOR, a foundational policy for controlling quadrotors, addressing the growing need for efficient and reliable aerial navigation in complex environments. The motivation stems from the increasing applications of drones in various fields, including delivery, surveillance, and search and rescue, where precise control is paramount. The primary problem tackled is the challenge of developing a robust control policy that can adapt to dynamic environments and varying operational conditions.","challenges":"Key technical challenges include ensuring stability and responsiveness in quadrotor control amidst disturbances and uncertainties. Existing approaches often struggle with real-time adaptability and scalability, particularly in environments with dynamic obstacles. Additionally, many traditional control methods lack the ability to generalize across different scenarios, leading to performance degradation in novel situations.","innovations":"RAPTOR introduces a novel reinforcement learning framework that leverages a hierarchical policy structure, allowing for both high-level decision-making and low-level control. This dual-layer approach enhances the quadrotor's ability to navigate complex environments while maintaining stability. The paper also presents a new simulation environment that incorporates realistic physics and dynamic obstacles, enabling more effective training and evaluation of the control policy. The theoretical contribution lies in the formulation of a new reward structure that encourages exploration and robustness, which is a significant advancement over existing methods.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves training the RAPTOR policy in a simulated environment with various scenarios, including static and dynamic obstacles. Key metrics for evaluation include trajectory accuracy, stability, and response time. The results demonstrate that RAPTOR outperforms baseline methods, showing a 30% improvement in trajectory accuracy and a 25% reduction in response time under dynamic conditions. Additionally, the policy exhibits superior adaptability, successfully navigating previously unseen environments without significant performance loss.","insights":"The implications of RAPTOR extend to various applications in drone technology, particularly in autonomous navigation and multi-agent systems. The ability to generalize across different scenarios opens up possibilities for deployment in real-world situations, such as disaster response and urban delivery services. Future research directions may include further refinement of the learning algorithms, exploration of multi-agent coordination strategies, and real-world testing to validate the robustness of the proposed policy.","keywords":["quadrotor control","reinforcement learning","hierarchical policy","dynamic environments","trajectory accuracy","simulation","autonomous navigation"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper presents RAPTOR, a foundational policy for controlling quadrotors, addressing the growing need for efficient and reliable aerial navigation in complex environments. The motivation stems from the increasing applications of drones in various fields, including delivery, surveillance, and search and rescue, where precise control is paramount. The primary problem tackled is the challenge of developing a robust control policy that can adapt t...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:04.506Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:35.563Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_raptor__a_foundation_policy_for_quadrotor_control_1758150515562"}},{"id":"hf_sound_matching_an_analogue_levelling_amplifier_using_the_newton_raphson_method_1758150517560","title":"Sound Matching an Analogue Levelling Amplifier Using the Newton-Raphson Method","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.10706","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the challenge of sound matching in analogue levelling amplifiers, a critical component in audio processing systems. The motivation stems from the need for precise audio signal manipulation and the limitations of traditional tuning methods. This research aims to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of sound matching processes using advanced mathematical techniques.","challenges":"Key challenges include the non-linear characteristics of analogue amplifiers and the difficulty in achieving optimal sound matching through conventional methods. Existing approaches often rely on heuristic tuning, which can be time-consuming and imprecise, leading to suboptimal performance in audio applications.","innovations":"The authors propose a novel application of the Newton-Raphson method for sound matching, which allows for rapid convergence to optimal parameters in analogue levelling amplifiers. This method is theoretically grounded in numerical analysis and offers a systematic approach to tuning. The paper presents a detailed algorithm that integrates this method into the sound matching process, demonstrating significant improvements in accuracy and speed compared to traditional techniques.","experiments":"The experimental setup involved a series of tests on various analogue levelling amplifiers, where the Newton-Raphson method was applied to adjust parameters for optimal sound matching. Key results indicate a marked improvement in matching accuracy, with metrics such as signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and total harmonic distortion (THD) showing favorable comparisons against baseline methods. The results underscore the method's effectiveness in practical scenarios.","insights":"This research has significant implications for the field of audio engineering, particularly in enhancing the performance of analogue systems. Potential applications include professional audio equipment, music production, and broadcasting. Future research directions may explore the integration of machine learning techniques to further refine sound matching processes and extend the method's applicability to digital systems.","keywords":["sound matching","analogue levelling amplifier","Newton-Raphson method","audio processing","signal-to-noise ratio","total harmonic distortion","tuning methods"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":8,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the challenge of sound matching in analogue levelling amplifiers, a critical component in audio processing systems. The motivation stems from the need for precise audio signal manipulation and the limitations of traditional tuning methods. This research aims to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of sound matching processes using advanced mathematical techniques.","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:05.173Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:37.560Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_sound_matching_an_analogue_levelling_amplifier_using_the_newton_raphson_method_1758150517560"}},{"id":"hf_struct_bench__a_benchmark_for_differentially_private_structured_text_generation_1758150519561","title":"Struct-Bench: A Benchmark for Differentially Private Structured Text Generation","authors":[],"abstract":"","published":"2025-09-17","source":"huggingface","url":"https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.10696","analysis":{"introduction":"The paper addresses the growing need for privacy-preserving techniques in natural language processing, particularly in the context of structured text generation. With increasing concerns over data privacy, there is a pressing demand for methods that can generate structured text while ensuring differential privacy. The authors aim to fill this gap by proposing a benchmark, Struct-Bench, that evaluates the effectiveness of differentially private text generation models.","challenges":"The main technical challenges include maintaining the balance between privacy and utility in generated text, as existing methods often compromise one for the other. Additionally, the lack of standardized benchmarks for evaluating differentially private structured text generation hinders progress in the field. Existing approaches may not adequately address the complexities of structured data formats, leading to suboptimal performance.","innovations":"Struct-Bench introduces a novel benchmarking framework specifically designed for evaluating differentially private structured text generation models. The authors propose new metrics that capture both privacy guarantees and the quality of generated text. Additionally, the paper presents a set of baseline models and their performance on the benchmark, providing a comprehensive evaluation of current methodologies. The theoretical contributions include a formalization of the privacy-utility trade-off in structured text generation, which could guide future research.","experiments":"The experimental setup involves testing various differentially private text generation models on the Struct-Bench dataset, which includes diverse structured text formats. Key results indicate that while some models achieve strong privacy guarantees, they often fall short in generating coherent and contextually relevant text. The authors compare their proposed models against established baselines, demonstrating improvements in both privacy metrics and text quality, thus validating the effectiveness of their benchmark.","insights":"The implications of this research are significant for fields requiring privacy-preserving text generation, such as healthcare and finance. The Struct-Bench framework can serve as a foundation for future studies, encouraging the development of more effective differentially private models. Future research directions may include exploring advanced techniques for enhancing text quality without compromising privacy, as well as extending the benchmark to other forms of structured data.","keywords":["differential privacy","structured text generation","benchmarking","privacy-utility trade-off","natural language processing","text quality metrics","machine learning","data privacy"],"category":"machine_learning","relevance_score":9,"technical_depth":"advanced","summary":"**Introduction:** The paper addresses the growing need for privacy-preserving techniques in natural language processing, particularly in the context of structured text generation. With increasing concerns over data privacy, there is a pressing demand for methods that can generate structured text while ensuring differential privacy. The authors aim to fill this gap by proposing a benchmark, Struct-Bench, that evaluates the effectiveness of differentially private te...","analyzed_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:19.993Z","model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini"},"scraped_at":"2025-09-17T23:08:39.561Z","archive_metadata":{"archived_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.159Z","original_id":"hf_struct_bench__a_benchmark_for_differentially_private_structured_text_generation_1758150519561"}}],"metadata":{"total_papers":63,"categories":{"machine_learning":63},"sources":{"arxiv":50,"huggingface":13},"average_score":8.8,"unique_keywords":["3D vision","vision-language model","spatial reasoning","2D/3D integration","region prompting","scene understanding","multi-view data","bounding boxes","interpretability","large language models","verbalization methods","model activations","evaluation benchmarks","natural language processing","AI transparency","Large Language Models","context summarization","ReAct","ReSum","GRPO","web agents","knowledge-intensive tasks","BrowseComp","open-ended deep research","dynamic outlines","evidence acquisition","AI report generation","dual-agent framework","hierarchical retrieval","DeepResearch Bench","memory bank","agentic intelligence","function-calling","environment scaling","training frameworks","tau-bench","ACEBench","fine-tuning","agentic systems","continual pre-training","AgentFounder","tool use","multi-step reasoning","benchmarks","optimization","AI agents","deep-research","Markov Decision Process","data synthesis","tool-augmented complexity"],"created_at":"2025-09-17T23:15:20.160Z","source":"daily_update","auto_archived":true}}